SECTION I.Introduction
SCADA systems collect, monitor, and analyze important information, which is usually handled by a central control center. These systems are complex because they involve numerous hardware and software components that communicate using various protocols. SCADA systems are widely used in the public utility sector and are necessary for the functioning of vital infrastructure such as petroleum and natural gas pipelines, power production and distribution facilities, and traffic control [1]. SCADA systems are critical for enhancing industrial and automation systems. Furthermore, they provide comprehensive management of the plant, improved communication, and system efficiency.

SCADA systems are used in the petroleum and gas industry to monitor and supervise production, wells, processes, pipeline systems, and offshore drilling [2]. Independent PLCs execute I/O control duties on field devices in a SCADA system, and they are managed by a software application bundle for human-machine interfaces (HMI), typically operating on a personal computer [3]. The SCADA HMI software may wander and store processed data on the PC for later verification.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) highlighted that ICS were separate systems utilizing special control protocols and customized software and hardware and bore little resemblance to standard information technology (IT) systems. Some ICS elements were physically protected and were not linked to IT networks or systems. ICS is used to follow processes, record activities, and take decisions, both manually and automatically, in upstream, midstream, and downstream infrastructures. ICS is used to collect information from sensors and control the state of manufacture.

In [4], the SCADA system and its detailed architecture were described. The SCADA communication protocols and critical control system protection are presented in [5]. Modeling ICS and its security is treated in the literature in several ways, and trustworthiness is solely considered from the standpoint of security, such as in the project of Security and Trusted SCADA and Smart Grids, "SCISSOR.". In [6], they discussed a significant issue with ICS security and identified five problems as the main reasons why the threat of ICS attacks is growing. Moreover, they presented research on how to integrate cyber security methods with model-based systems engineering (MBSE) and SysML. SysML's ICS security is offered in accordance with the framework from ISO/IEC 21827 (2008). This model gives a high-level overview of the threats that cyber security poses to ICSs. It shows how adversaries take advantage of weaknesses to put assets at risk. Countermeasures tailored to each vulnerability reduce the danger to assets.

NIST [7] developed guidelines on how to protect Industrial Control Systems (ICS) and addressed numerous attributes such as performance, reliability, and safety standards. They also include an overview of ICS and typical system topologies, as well as identification of prevalent threats and vulnerabilities in these systems, as well as security suggestions.

The authors of [8] developed security regulations for sophisticated SCADA systems in petroleum distribution and storage networks, as well as modeled SCADA components and cyber policy. It has been built several testbeds for power systems in order to simulate cyberattacks on power systems [9] and to model and test cyber security in SCADA systems [10]. The Testbed for Assessing Security of SCADA Control Systems (TASSCS) was created to assess the impact of eight different types of cyber-attacks [11]. MBSE for modeling trust CPS was developed in [12].

The petroleum and natural gas industry literature lacks analysis of the underpinning design technique [13]. Security and trustworthiness are not sufficiently included in the design and maintenance processes.

Increasing complexities of systems such as cyber physical systems (CPS), ICS, and SCADA; the complexity of the petroleum and gas sector; the expanding face of risk and attacks in that sector; the evolution of attack techniques and tools; and the difficulty to foresee unexpected threats. Analytical modeling methods reduce operational errors while also mitigating and forecasting risks. Creating security, safety, and trust in these technologies and within a complex environment like the gas and oil business All of these things are challenges to establishing new SCADA and ICS systems and ensuring the reliability and trust of those systems.

According to expert opinion, rebuilding SCADA systems completely using secure operating system technology would be the best route of action for safeguarding critical infrastructures from project SCISSOR [14].

Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) approaches are used in this paper, which outlines the design of a modern ICS and SCADA system for the oil and gas industries. SysML, a modeling language that is based on UML 2.0 and is intended to aid in MBSE (OMG 2012), is also used. This paper aims to:

A. Propose the phases of the MBSE approach for trust SCADA and ICS systems.
B. Apply the proposed MBSE method for:
Target security concern and mitigation: show how we can enable trust in ICS and SCADA by focusing on threats and risk identification and highlighting recommendations for mitigating risk.

Target trustworthiness: via presenting how stakeholders trust ICS and SCADA and interact with them.

The remaining section of this paper is structured as follows: Section 2 presents a background including, an overview of oil and gas SCADA, industrial control systems, and model based system engineering. In Section 3, we depict model based system engineering for ICS and SCADA systems. Finally, Section 4 concludes this study.

SECTION II.BACKGROUNDS
A. Oil and gas SCADA and ICS systems
Since both upstream and midstream architectures use comparable CPS logic in terms of intelligent equipment and communication channels, they both comprise components and prioritize networking over facility installations. The devices and actuators used in midstream implementations are actually anticipated to be less complex (the same SCADA HMI, protocols, sensors, and devices, but without tanks or processing equipment). In upstream infrastructure, SCADA systems are used for identical monitoring tasks during pipe shipping, oil and gas division, and well recovery.

1) SCADA architecture layers
The authors in [15] categorized the three levels of the SCADA system:

RTUs, sensors, and actuators are all part of the field bus layer. This level is responsible for gathering raw information and sending it to higher layers.

The Industrial Ethernet level is made up of servers, PLCs, HMIs, and Master Terminal Units (MTUs). Its duties include data analysis and initial level control.

Enterprise services and business applications are found in the business management layer. This level permits the user to supervise the SCADA system.

Modbus-TCP Distributed Network Protocol (DNP3), IEC-60870-5-104, and Inter-Control Center Protocol (lCCP, IEC60870-6) are SCADA communication protocols [5].

Table 1 presents the SCADA components, activities and equipment.

TABLE I. SCADA Components activities and equipments.
Table I.- 
SCADA Components activities and equipments.

2) Industrial control systems (ICSs)
An ICS is made up of numerous field-based equipment that are under the control of a single location [16].

3) ICS architecture layers:
Hardware includes access control devices like smart cards and RFID readers, server hardware including RACKs and CPUs, sensors, actuators, RTUs, PLCs, and routers, as well as valves, ATGs, and slaves.

Software: proprietary software, HMIs, and APIs

Network: Protocols for communication, modems and routers, and firewalls.

Process: control system setup and ICS company logic design

Firmware: operating systems, information and manuals for managing materials, AMI's

B. Model based system engineering
MBSE is a modeling formalism that promotes system specifications, conceptualization, evaluation, and activities Starting with the ideation phase of design and continuing through the development and subsequent life cycle phases are verification and validation [17], [18]. MBSE has a number of benefits, such as improved mapping, traceability, and system decomposition [19], enhanced system management and communication [20], complexity management, and risk mitigation [21]. Diagrams are used in SysML to model systems and systems-of-systems. SysML can be used to model hardware, data, and processes in addition to software. ICS operators utilize SysML to model control systems. It is used, for example, by General Electric Transportation Systems (GETS) in the creation of applications for railway signaling [22].

SECTION III.MODEL BASED SYSTEM ENGINEERING FOR ICS AND SCADA SYSTEMS
This paragraph describes the planned steps of MBSE for trusting ICS and SCADA systems in O&G. The techniques are then applied to the SCADA and ICS systems, utilizing SysML and UML diagrams.

The use of MBSE models lowers project risks, schedules, costs, and product quality. MBSE has evolved into an important component of creating complicated cyber-physical systems, and it is commonly used to: a) record and direct the system's requirements, planning, building, and surroundings; and b) facilitate interaction among multiple stakeholders by taking part in and conveying perspectives on a wide range of objectives. To handle the difficult interdisciplinary, multi-domain process of a complex system, the MBSE technique is required [12].

A. MBSE phases
MBSE involves the combination of stakeholder needs into construction models in order to provide understandable system descriptions. As illustrated in Figure 1, the suggested MBSE technique for trusting SCADA and ICS is based on numerous disciplines, including system engineering (MBSE's pillar), requirement definition, and modeling.

1) Phase one (engineering elements, tasks, and goals are analyzed)
System engineering is a branch of engineering that focuses on the entire system’s creation and implementation while taking all elements into account [23].

Fig. 1. - 
Model-based system engineering (MBSE) phases for trust SCADA/ ICS, activities in stages, and approach employed.

Fig. 1.
Model-based system engineering (MBSE) phases for trust SCADA/ ICS, activities in stages, and approach employed.

Show All

System definition: Identify the integrated components of ICS and SCADA systems (subsystems, products, hardware, software, firmware, and networks). The system's exterior and interior views introduced the pieces that make up the system and interact with it. The interaction of the system with its operational environment expresses the functioning of the system.

Specify a set of objectives for customers, stakeholders, and systems.

The goals of applying systems engineering for trust SCADA and ICS are to create a system that is dependable, efficient, and simple to manage by defining SCADA and ICS and what they are, what they do, and what their boundaries are. Know the interconnected elements that collaborate to achieve a common goal, as well as the system boundary, which is the limit that separates the system from its surroundings. The use of a diagram to illustrate a system and its boundaries, as well as its inputs, outputs, feedback loops, and interactions. A system diagram aids in determining the scope, structure, and behavior of a system and communicating it to others.

2) Phase two (engineering requirement)
This step is based on identifying trust requirements for ICS and SCADA systems. Engineering requirements (RE) is a thorough and systematic method for requirement creation and management [24]. The requirements phase is typically the most crucial step in the design of software and systems. They serve as implementation guidelines as well as a reference for final product testing and validation. The authors in [25] describe the fundamental requirements for trust systems as well as mandatory trust attributes.

The emphasis in this phase is on trust building and incorporating trust characteristics in the initial stages of the trust system, as described in [12], and it is explained that trust generation is performed by connecting a CPS life cycle with an array of trustworthiness needs. The goal is to build a model that leverages the information in the specification of needs and the existence of required qualities to verify and track the behavior of the final setup.

3) Phase three (identification of risk and fears and mitigation):
a) Identification of risk and fears
This stage should be used to determine the set of threats and controls. Risk management is based on industry norms and standards. Oil and gas industries, like other critical infrastructure sectors, depend on extremely dependable Industrial Control Systems (ICSs) and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems, in addition to accompanying infrastructure.

Industrial control procedures and SCADA systems have facilitated the adoption of common, inexpensive hardware (Windows/Linux PCs and servers, embedded systems, commercial switches, etc.). It is believed that the deployment of these affordable devices and adaptable Internet of Things technologies would have a profound impact on industrial processes and crucial infrastructure to an unprecedented degree.

Trust as a system quality should be guaranteed by fear awareness and requirement satisfaction [25]. In the case of SCADA in ICS, we divided the fears into four classes: cyber fears and human fears and trustworthiness fears, safety and environment fears.

1) Cyber fears
According to the authors of [26], cyber-attacks are classified as denial of service (DoS) attacks, fraud attacks, and replay incidents. Attacks in the O&G field are directed at the operating domain [27]. The majority of harms compromise security features. By flooding the connecting device, denial of service (DoS) endangers system availability [28]. The use of protocol networks in systems such as SCADA, PLC, and RTU enhances O&G sector vulnerability [4]. Concerns related to hardware and software, as well as untrustworthy computer platforms [29]. Another source of worry is the absence of encryption and connection segmentation in SCADA systems, which continue to use unencrypted MODBUS/TCP protocols to run equipment. Staff awareness is another key part of security. The most popular attack strategies in this area appear to be email phishing and information spoofing. The most well-known cyber-attacks are denial-of-service (DoS) attacks [30], Command Injection [31], and Data exfiltration [32].

2) Human fears
Human security and safety issues are clearly associated with oil and gas production. Oil spills and gas flaring are two main dangers to human security [33] that have an immediate influence on their safety. In this industry, several dangers, such as natural hazards [34], which are harm caused by climatic and geographical factors, pose a substantial threat to humans. Fear about the human factor has two aspects: the first is concern about the human being's safety and security. The second factor is fear of him and the mistakes he makes, whether he is an oil field worker or a merchant from afar.

3) Trustworthiness fears
Some concerns are related to privacy, which is the capability of an ICS or SCADA to restrict entities (system engineers, devices) from accessing data saved in, produced by, or sent by an ICS or SCADA or its parts. Privacy improves the system's dependability significantly. Typically, attacks target the attributes of trustworthiness, such as denial of service (DoS) [35]. A Service disruption is caused by the assaults. Unidentified individuals or attackers may gain access to specific data and extract sensitive data [36].

4) Safety and environment fears
Safety is a critical concern in the process industries, and IEC 61508 is considered a fundamental safety standard that applies to all industries. Energy industry operations have a direct impact on the environment in terms of emissions of greenhouse gases, changes in the climate, spillage of oil, and substantial and hazardous waste. Accidents involving oil leakage occur in the offshore petroleum industry during oil exploration and transportation. Oil spills are a source of concern since they cause huge pollution in the water, which generates a host of economic and environmental issues [37].

b) Mitigation
The defense strategy is centered on protection, detection, and mitigation. The vulnerabilities, potential threats, and mitigating solutions are covered in [5]. In [38], they provided a testbed for identifying SCADA protocol flaws. [39] provides an overview of ICS protocol- and sensor/actuator-related security vulnerabilities (Modbus/TCP, DNP3, IEC 61850), as well as suggested security solutions to reduce the risk. The O&G sector is actively encouraged to follow the rules. It provides a method for analyzing the dependability of complicated safety-instrumented Systems and demonstrates IEC61508 compliance in OIL and GAS applications, with a focus on steam turbines [40]. Industrial Control System (ICS) security program design and implementation, as well as ICS security techniques, are described in [7].

B. MBSE for trust ICS and SCADA systems
In the previous section, we discussed the processes for designing trust ICS and SCADA systems, which require various disciplines to be combined. We attempted to gather client trust goals and needs and reflect them in the system's capabilities for trust ICS and SCADA modeling.

1) Phase 1
The initial step of system engineering and element analysis offers system definition and integrated ICS and SCADA components. Table 1 lists the essential elements of SCADA.

Fig. 2. - 
UML component diagram for SCADA systems

Fig. 2.
UML component diagram for SCADA systems

Show All

a) SCADA system component diagram
Figure 2 presents the UML component diagram for SCADA system.

b) SCADA capability diagram
The main capabilities of SCADA are defined as gathering real-time data, controling processes remotely, Storing historical data.

Gather real-time data: SCADA enables the collection of real-time data from field controllers. This is displayed to operators via a graphical interface known as a Human Machine Interface (HMI).

Control processes remotely: Seeing data in real time, even from a remote location, can advise operators on what modifications they need to make on a given site to keep production up and running. It enables interaction with equipment such as valves and sensors using HMI.

Store historical data: permits to log historical data. This means that producers can study output and seek for movements.

In the absence of implementation details, capabilities provide an overview. Capabilities, like requirements, are elements that describe systems. Capabilities and requirements are inextricably linked, and they both inform and enhance one another. Business professionals frequently identify stages of the business process by asking, "What should the system be able to do?" [41]. Figure 3 depicts the SCADA capability diagram.

c) ICS system component
In an ICS structure, field equipment like remote terminus units (RTUs), intelligent devices, and programmable logic controllers (PLCs) use wired and wireless communications to transfer industrial processing information collected at remote sites to the control center. Clients can access data via standard protocols on the master terminal device. The human-machine interface (HMI) displays processed data to a human operator by accessing the time-stamped information gathered in the data historian. Data is gathered and processed, and control commands are sent to remote controllers.

d) ICS activity diagram
Activity Diagrams are used to define circumstances in which parallel processing happens while performing some tasks. Activity diagrams are valuable for engineering modeling because they detail the processes that occur throughout system activities. Figure 4 shows the ICS Activities diagram.

2) Phase 2 (trust requirement for SCADA and ICS)
Via using SysML requirement diagram for trust SCADA and ICS, the complete set of SCADA and ICS trust needs is depicted in Figure 5.

3) Phase 3 (risk and threat identification, as well as mitigation controls)
SysML facilitates MBSE through the use of views. Should deal with a variety of interconnected concerns. The identification of concerns and threats is a critical task. This is a technique known as "separation of concerns" [42].

Fig. 3. - 
SCADA capability diagram

Fig. 3.
SCADA capability diagram

Show All

Fig. 4. - 
ICS Activities diagram

Fig. 4.
ICS Activities diagram

Show All

Fig. 5. - 
SysML requirement diagram (the full set of SCADA and ICS trust criteria)

Fig. 5.
SysML requirement diagram (the full set of SCADA and ICS trust criteria)

Show All

Fig. 6. - 
Threat identification diagram

Fig. 6.
Threat identification diagram

Show All

Fig. 7. - 
SysML use case diagram for trust SCADA and ICS

Fig. 7.
SysML use case diagram for trust SCADA and ICS

Show All

ICSs and SCADAs have to ensure security and safety for people, processes, and the environment. In the previous section we detailed the fears and risks that surrounded SCADA and ICS systems in oil and gas field. The threat identification diagram is presented in Figure 6.

4) SysML employs a diagram that depicts how interactors trust ICS and SCADA systems
a) The first point of interaction with ICS and SCADA is communication
MBSE promotes communication between stakeholders, system engineers, and developers. Because system design is done in an integrated modeling environment, engineers, managers, and other stakeholders can immediately access the created information such as requirements, behavior flows, and architecture. An operator can communicate with the plant control system with the use of HMI. These might be engineering workstations, operator workstations, or other tools that let an operator examine and work with data inside an ICS system.

b) The second point of interaction is how trust ICS and SCADA systems
How trust those systems from the angles of functionality, safety, security , satisfaction of end user. Some important system qualities should be guaranteed such as:

Availability is described as the property of being reachable, obtainable, and used by an allowed entity on demand (BS ISO/IEC 13335 2004).

Confidentiality is the ability to not reveal or make data accessible to unidentified people, entities, or systems (BS ISO/IEC 13335 2004).

Integrity is defined as "the property of guaranteeing the correctness and fullness of resources" (BS ISO/IEC 13335 2004).

The attribute of authenticity ensures that a resource's identification is the one declared. Authenticity applies to devices, individuals, operations, structures, and information" (BS ISO/IEC 13335 2004)ICS security, The NIST ICS paradigm provides a complete set of ICS security guidelines. Particular Publication (SP) series, in especially:

"Supervising Information Security Risk - structure, The objective, and Information System View," NIST SP 800-39, and "Guide for Applying the Risk Control Framework to Federal Systems of Information, a Secure Whole-of-Life Approach," NIST SP 800-37.

NIST SP 800-53, "Security and privacy regulations for federal systems of information and groups,"

NIST special publication 800-82, "guide to industrial control systems (ICS) security."

c) Control and mitigation
Cyber Physical System Control [43] describes security as follows: a) prevention, which slows the onset of an attack; b) resilience, which halts the attack's activity; c) detection, which locates the attack's source; and d), segregation of the damaged subsystems and speedy return to normal operation. The defense strategy ought to count on three techniques to prevent two things: the time between the start of the attack and exploration, which damages the system, and the inability to stop spoofing attempts.

The major roles for managing and monitoring system quality and trust characteristics are the recognition of dangers that could happen and impact user trust, as well as the deployment of corresponding policies to minimize the threats. As an illustration of trustworthy evaluation at the design stage [44], where it utilized computational approaches for evaluating end-to-end system trustworthiness along with the risk-based strategy for identifying abstract risks to trustworthiness.

The following are the most often utilized strategies for vulnerability mitigation and control in the sphere of oil and gas [45]: Field equipment tamper resistance controls, trusted procurement practices, updating, and patching Internal audit, penetration testing, and encryption segmenting the network and using various technologies.

Other techniques for mitigating the threats in ICS are: integrating firewalls into ICS interfaces to guard against a wide range of threats [46]; and continuing to monitor the security environment surrounding the systems, which is a vital approach to supplementing the regular firewalling and authentication techniques. Including the implementation of ubiquitous security via design. Figure 7 shows the use case diagram for trust SCADA and ICS; additionally, Figure 8 depicts the SysML profile diagram for ICS and SCADA control and mitigation.

C. Discussion
ICS and SCADA systems are often developed with low-power computing equipment and incorporated into highly complex, infrastructure-critical systems. It is an uphill battle to achieve trust by design in ICS and SCADA, as well as including trust engineering into system design from the beginning of the system's life cycle.

Fig. 8. - 
The SysML profile diagram for ICS/ SCADA control and mitigation

Fig. 8.
The SysML profile diagram for ICS/ SCADA control and mitigation

Show All

From system requirements, design, and analysis, MBSE was used to handle the difficulty of creating trust in SCADA and ICS. SCADA and ICS systems were subjected to MBSE phases. The system structure and components of SCADA systems are modeled in the UML component diagram. SCADA capability is modeled in the capability diagram, and ICS activities are designed in the activity diagram.

The threat definition diagram identifies the critical hazards. The heterogeneity of systems is represented as a requirement diagram, and trustworthiness is an integrative quality. SysML use case diagram for trust SCADA and ICS is presented to show the interaction between stockholders and systems. The SysML profile diagram for ICS/ SCADA control and mitigation is also provided.

MBSE with trust engineering is the ideal formalism for developing safe, secure, and trust systems in the oil and gas industry. It will be in charge of the architecture design as well as the integrity and integration of SCADA and ICS components. It ensures the early design of security and trust quality in SCADA and ICS by enabling the correct specification of all environments, user needs, and standards.

SECTION IV.CONCLUSION
This study addressed the concepts and definitions of ICS and SCADA systems, as well as the design of a modern ICS and SCADA system for the oil and gas industry using Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) approaches. An overview of the phases involved in building MBSE for trust SCADA/ICS is offered, as well as MBSE phases analysis and activities in stages. The MBSE method includes a SysML/UML-based profile, definition of trust requirements, identification of risk and threat, user interaction modeling, and control and mitigation techniques.

SCADA and ICS communications networks are increasingly vulnerable to threats that might lead to malicious behaviors such as unauthorized access and espionage. Common issues for SCADA security and implementation include public key infrastructures, finding SCADA network vulnerabilities, distributed security mechanisms that meet SCADA network resource constraints, cloud security in SCADA networks, lightweight cryptographic algorithms and protocols, as well as a few novel devices designed specifically for SCADA networks, Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs), control of access, rules vulnerability assessment, and fire detection. Compatibility is also a fundamental challenge because SCADA systems comprise a wide range of hardware and software components from many manufacturers, and it can be challenging to ensure that all of these components perform flawlessly together. In addition, there is the difficulty of integrating legacy systems with new SCADA technologies. Legacy systems frequently employ private protocols and interfaces, rendering them incompatible with modern SCADA systems. The usage of numerous communication protocol standards by suppliers might also be problematic.

Secure communications are essential for the secure movement of oil and gas. The first step in reducing communication hazards is encryption with authentication. Our next work will concentrate on SCADA and ICS Protocol encryption and authentication.