Applicability of the IEC 62443 standard in Industry 4.0 / IIoT
Björn Leander
Mälardalen University
ABB Industrial Automation, Process Control Platform
Västerås, Sweden
bjorn.leander@se.abb.com
Aida Čaušević
Hans Hansson
Mälardalen University
Västerås, Sweden
aida.causevic@mdh.se
hans.hansson@mdh.se
ABSTRACT
Today’s industrial automation systems are undergoing a digital
transformation that implies a shift towards the Internet of Things
(IoT), leading to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) paradigm.
Existing Industrial Automated Control Systems (IACS), enriched
with a potentially large number of IoT devices are expected to make
systems more efficient, flexible, provide intelligence, and ultimately
enable autonomous control. In general, the majority of such systems
come with high level of criticality that calls for well-established
methods and approaches when achieving cybersecurity, preferably
prescribed by a standard.
IEC 62443 is an industrial standard that provides procedures
to manage risks related to cybersecurity threats in IACS. Given
the new IIoT paradigm, it is likely that existing standards are not
sufficiently aligned with the challenges related to developing and
maintaining cybersecurity in such systems. In this paper we review
the applicability of the IEC 62443 standard in IIoT contexts and
discuss potential challenges the process owners might encounter.
Our analysis underlines that some areas within the standard
could prove difficult to reach compliance with. In particular, handling of cross zone communication and software updates require
additional guidance.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Security and privacy → Systems security.
ACM Reference Format:
Björn Leander, Aida Čaušević, and Hans Hansson. 2019. Applicability of
the IEC 62443 standard in Industry 4.0 / IIoT. In Proceedings of the 14th
International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security (ARES 2019)
(ARES ’19), August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom. ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 8 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3339252.3341481
1 INTRODUCTION
Industrial Automation and Control Systems (IACS) are used for
operating a wide range of industrial applications, including critical
infrastructure. An emerging trend within IACS is the Industrial
Internet of Things (IIoT), being driven by the fourth industrial
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom
© 2019 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-7164-3/19/08. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3339252.3341481
revolution (Industry 4.0). According to Industrial Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC) [6], a fundamental purpose of Industry 4.0 is
to enable cooperation and collaboration between devices. More
specifically, the aim of IIoT is to enable optimization, cost-savings,
and new business opportunities in different domains. It is expected
that IIoT will introduce significant advances in optimizing decisionmaking, operations and collaborations among a large number of
increasingly autonomous control systems [8].
IEC 62443 [7] is an industry standard that describes ways to
handle cybersecurity threats in IACS. The standard has been developed with the classical automation pyramid in mind. With the
emergence of IIoT, this architecture is no longer the norm, and
the development has accelerated an already ongoing convergence
between Operation Technology (OT) and Information Technology
(IT) that results in an increase of the attack surface of IACS. There
is an apparent risk that the introduction of IIoT makes parts of the
standards outdated.
The main purpose of this paper is to assess the IEC 62443 standard from an IIoT perspective, and discuss a number of issues that
process owners will face when trying to keep compliance to the
standard while adapting to the reality of an increasing number
of IIoT devices being part of the system. To make the work more
readable we include a rather simple description of an automation
architecture in both a traditional IACS and an IIoT set up, to which
we relate our findings.
The paper is organised as follows. Section 2 introduces necessary
background and defines concepts used in this paper. In Section 3
the current state of the IEC 62443 standard is described together
with the IACS reference model. Section 4 presents a simplified
architecture for an IIoT system, and based on that we analyse the
IEC 62443 standard, and provide a discussion on challenges when
trying to reach compliance to the standard in such a system. The
contributions of the work are recalled in Section 5, together with
suggestions for the future research.
2 BACKGROUND
An IACS is defined as the system of hardware, software, personnel and policies involved in operation of an industrial process and
that can affect its operation with regards to safety, security and
reliability [7]. IACS are responsible for controlling and monitoring a wide range of different types of physical processes, ranging
from chemical industries, power plants, manufacturing, etc. Many
of these systems are of vital importance for supplying basic functionality to society, such as electricity and clean water. Failure of
systems providing critical infrastructure services can have severe
effects, both economical and environmental, and their protection is
ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom Björn Leander, Aida Čaušević, and Hans Hansson
therefore of great importance. For many industry segments there
are laws regulating how this protection must be implemented. For
example, plants delivering power to the North American power
grid are required to fulfill the NERC CIP standard [17].
Cybersecurity is the protection of a computer system from unauthorized actors possibility to steal or alter information in the system,
disrupt or alter behaviour of a function or perform an unauthorized
action [11].
The IEC 62443 is the de facto standard for cybersecurity in industrial control systems, as the only one being applied internationally
and cross-industry [12]. It is defined by the IEC in cooperation with
International Society for Automation (ISA). IEC 62443 has parts
being under development, but it is still widely used by industry,
and also forms a base for certification, e.g. the Embedded Device
Security Assurance (EDSA) certification [10]. An IACS owner can
use the described methods to keep its system at a desired level of
security, and also require that service providers and manufacturers
of the components used in the IACS follow the principles and adheres to a certain security level for their delivery. In this way the
IEC 62443 is a source of common understanding of cybersecurity
related issues for IACS owners, component developers, and service
providers.
In the traditional IACS there used to be a clear separation between the OT network and the IT network. The OT network containing the devices and services directly concerned with controlling
the physical process, was usually physically separated from the
IT network, that contained e.g., the organization office network.
There is an ongoing convergence between the IT and OT network,
with the introduction of IT technology in the OT network, and a
growing amount of interconnections between IT and OT networks,
e.g., remote access from IT clients to OT functions and the usage
of standard IT components in OT systems. This convergence of
technologies implemented with different objectives with regards
to security [12] is exposing IACS to potentially new cybersecurity threats. The attack on the Ukrainian power grid in December
2015, is one such an example, where attackers were able to compromise and disrupt power distribution [13], affecting approximately
250.000 Ukrainian citizens.
The Industrial Internet or Industry 4.0 is an ongoing trend in the
world of industrial automation. Some of the promises of Industry
4.0 are:
• Autonomous collaboration between technical assets, minimizing the need for low level configuration.
• Advanced analysis of large amounts of data allowing better
business decisions.
• Support for novel business models, such as Factory as a
Service.
Internet technology is being applied in IACS systems, and specifically IoT devices and services being adopted to or developed specifically for use in industrial applications. IIoT has a multitude of
definitions, but in this paper we will use the following definition,
inspired by Boyes et al. [2]: an IIoT is assumed to be comprised of
devices and services spread over a thing-to-cloud continuum, with
each device able to be composed of several devices. Devices may
have related information spread throughout several services, and
for each device there may be multiple stakeholders both within
and outside the IACS owner organisation. The objective of the
IIoT is to optimise the overall value that the IACS deliver, including e.g., product or service quality, productivity, labour costs and
resource allocations. In smart manufacturing, the product being
manufactured is also part of the IIoT, directing the process-steps it
flows through with actions that must be executed to complete its
manufacturing process.
3 IEC 62443 - CURRENT STATE
IEC 62443 consist of a number of documents describing different
aspects of implementing and maintaining security to a well defined
level within an IACS. The standard is split into four main groups,
with several documents in each group:
• IEC 62443-1-X General, contains documents for defining
concepts, terminology, use cases, etc.
• IEC 62443-2-X Policies and procedures, contains e.g., secure
patch management and security program requirements.
• IEC 62443-3-X System level requirements, system risk assessment, etc.
• IEC 62443-4-X Component level requirements, including
component development requirements.
In this paper we will look at published documents of the standard
available from the IEC library. At the time of writing this includes
1-1, 2-1, 2-3, 2-4, 3-1, 3-3, 4-1 and 4-2.
The IEC 62443 standard in general provides requirements that
must be fulfilled, but does not suggest measures for evaluating
implementation of these requirements. There is no clear guidelines
in process of assuring that the requirements are met, which makes
a lot of the work with assigning levels of security and assessing
countermeasures into subjective tasks for the implementing organisation. This characteristic makes the standard useful also when
new technologies are introduced, but partly impede the possibility
of stating compliance without subjective judgement.
Risk tolerance level is one key aspect defining the risk an organisation can accept for a specific IACS. Several different response
strategies can be applied to a risk:
• Change design to remove the risk;
• Reduce the risk;
• Accept the risk;
• Transfer the risk, e.g., insurances or outsourcing of function.
Cybersecurity Management Systems (CSMS) includes e.g., programs to continuously reassess risks. Security Levels are created to
classify groups of assets, with regards to security zones. For each
security zone a target security level SL(tarдet) is assigned. The
SL(tarдet) is usually the outcome of a risk assessment of that zone.
SL(tarдet) describes the effectiveness that applied countermeasures
must reach to properly secure the zone. The achieved security level
SL(achieved) of a zone is a dynamic property that typically degrades with time, as emerging threats and evolving technologies
make existing countermeasures relatively less secure, unless maintenance and upgrade procedures are followed. SL(capability) is
the security level a specific countermeasure or device/system can
provide to a security zone.
Applicability of the IEC 62443 standard in Industry 4.0 / IIoT ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom
Actuator Sensor
Sensors /
Actuators
(Level 1)
DCS
Controller
Basic
Control
(Level 1)
SCADA
Supervisory
Control
(Level 2)
Operations
Management
(Level 3) MES
ERP
Enterprise
Systems
(Level 4)
Physical
Process
(Level 0)
PLC
Amount of data
Real time requirement
Actuator Sensor Actuator Sensor
DCS
Controller
DCS
Controller
SCADA SCADA
MES
Figure 1: Traditional automation pyramid based on PERA
The goal is that for any given time SL(acheived) ≥ SL(tarдet),
for each security zone defined in the system. A security level lifecycle aims to continuously fulfill this goal, using recurring reassessments and specific assessments for security related system changes,
e.g., process change, new vulnerability detected, software patch of
devices.
The IACS reference model used in the standard is 5-tier, influenced by the Purdue Enterprise Reference Architecture (PERA) [22],
illustrated in Figure 1.
Layer 1-2 typically comprise the OT network, usually being split
into several security zones based on criticality, layer 3-4 comprise
the IT network. As can be seen the different layers directly interact only through hierarchy. Lower levels typically have real-time
constraints, but the higher the level, the longer the cycles become.
For Enterprise Resource Planning systems (ERP) reaction on data
may be in terms of weeks or months. The amount of data being
collected and concentrated per level is reversed, the higher the level,
the more data is used for the processing logic.
3.1 Security program for IACS service provider
and IACS owner
IEC 62443-2-1 Ed. 1 and 62443-2-4 contains guidance on the content
and development for a CSMS for an organisation owning or providing service to an IACS. The standards mainly consist of policies
and procedures, that shall be part of the CSMS, and suggestions on
how these could be developed.
The elements of the CSMS with regards to IACS owner is divided
into three main categories, the first one focusing on risk analysis,
the second (and largest) one focusing on addressing risks, and the
third one addresses fulfillment and continuous improvement of the
CSMS.
The elements focusing on risk analysis provides requirements on
e.g., that a risk assessment methodology must be selected, that a risk
assessment using that methodology should be executed and documented by trained personnel and that there should be a strategy
for reassessment.
The elements focusing on addressing risk contains requirements
on policies, organization, selected security countermeasures, document management, incident handling, etc.
The elements focusing on fulfillment and improvement of the
CSMS contains requirements on how to perform recurring audits
of the organisation, and how to evaluate and introduce changes of
the CSMS.
IACS service providers are separated into two categories: integration service providers and maintenance service providers. The
requirements as defined for CSMS for IACS service providers are
formulated slightly different compared to those of an IACS owner,
as the focus is on what capability the service provider can deliver in
relation to the IACS. The Capability Maturity Model Integration for
services (CMMI-SVC) [4] is adapted to the standard as a measure
for service provider maturity with regards to compliance with the
standard.
3.2 Secure Patch Management
Secure patch management is an issue of great importance in an
IACS, as software goes out of date, bugs are fixed, potentially functionality is added. At the same time, introduction of non-operable
or malicious software poses a great threat to such a system.
IEC 62443-2-3 is the part of the standard that provides guidance
on secure patch management. All assets must be monitored with
regards to current versions and available patches, installed and
verified in a test-system, create backups of original system before
applying patch, and possibly halt operations while applying patch.
Assets may reach a point in time when they are no longer supported
by the product supplier, i.e., software/asset obsolescence. In such
cases new patches for the asset will not be released regardless of
any vulnerabilities or bugs discovered.
With the full patch management process both by the vendor and
by the asset owner, a software patch has a life-cycle containing
several states, including testing, approving and releasing from product supplier perspective to internal test, authorization and internal
release by asset owner (i.e., 11 steps according to the standard).
The standard supplies a set of recommended requirements with
regards to patch management for both the IACS owner and IACS
product supplier. For the IACS owner the key issue is to keep an
inventory of all updatable assets containing their current versions,
latest available patch versions and status, regularly revise that
list and apply patches after performing internal tests. For product
supplier the requirements include supplying information on patch
availability and applicability, warn customer in advance of “end-oflife” for product, etc.
The standard argues for any IACS owner and IACS product
supplier to implement a patch management process to facilitate
these requirements.
3.3 Security technologies for IACS
IEC 62443-3-1 provides an assessment of various cybersecurity tools,
mitigation counter-measures, and technologies that can be used in
IACS, followed by guidance on usage and known weaknesses of
existing methods.
Authorization and authentication are two of the main areas being
covered, discussing Role Based Acces Control (RBAC) as one useful,
ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom Björn Leander, Aida Čaušević, and Hans Hansson
but not widely used method. The main weakness is that current
RBAC systems in general are tied to specific technology stacks,
such as COTS OS. IACS commonly include specialized devices that
do not have this support by default, thus require development of
interfaces against the (various) RBAC system(s). Furthermore, a
centralized RBAC system would require any device to be covered
to have access to a central server, making the operation of the IACS
dependent on the health of the corporate network.
Network firewalls are discussed as an important tool for perimeter protection, including SW and HW firewalls, different filtering
strategies, log monitoring, etc.
Symmetric Encryption is discussed, and noted not being commonly used in the IACS environment, as the control networks are
seen as operating in physically secure zones. However, for traffic
crossing unsecure networks, encryption of data is encouraged.
Public key (assymetric) encryption is seen as an important means
of exchanging symmetric keys, but is in general too resource consuming to be used in time-critical devices. Man-in-the middle attacks can be successfully launched against public key encryption
methods, unless authenticity of communicating parties are validated by certificates.
Audit log monitoring is described as being an important method
of detecting intrusion attempts. Focus is mainly on servers e.g.,
windows server machines, for which there exist centralized audit
log methods.
Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs) come in two flavors: Network IDS (NIDS) and Host IDS (HIDS). NIDS is most commonly
deployed as a separate device, e.g., connected to a mirroring port on
a network router or integrated in a router or firewall. NIDS checks
all network data for either known attack-patterns or unexpected
behavior. HIDS is installed as software on a host and can check
the logs, network traffic and file-system for indications of completed or ongoing intrusions. A special variant of IDS also prevents
an intrusion attempt by, e.g., blocking network traffic related to
a detected intrusion attempt. There are several drawbacks of IDS,
mainly related to the cost of applying to all sub-nets and hosts, cost
of monitoring and cost of handling false positives.
Vulnerability scanners provide means of hardening the system,
and can be used to detect: security policy deviations, bad configurations and software flaws. Typically these kinds of scans should be
performed when re-assessing SL(acheived) for an IACS. However,
the scan itself can have a negative impact on the performance of
the IACS, implying that the scan should ideally be performed in
a lab-environment first to assess that the impact of the scan will
not interfere with regular operations. Alternatively a vulnerability
scan could be performed during a planned maintenance halt of the
process.
Host Configuration Management (HCM) tools can be used to
remotely edit default host configurations with regards to available
software, as well as user access. In IACS this is not widely used,
due to the lack of standardization of such systems with regards to
the diversity of hosts.
Operating Systems are discussed in the standard, especially realtime operating systems (RTOS) are mentioned as having limited
possibilities and abilities to counter cybersecurity threats. As e.g.,
DCS controllers and PLCs, in general execute on RTOS, these devices by their nature cannot function without network connectivity
that makes them one of the most vulnerable parts of an IACS.
These systems monitor and control real physical processes. The
recommendation is to keep them on truly isolated networks, e.g.,
keep time-critical application traffic on a separate network. This
will probably be true in early adaptions to IIoT, with separation
of real-time functionality for control and critical supervision from
information collection with regards to analysis. In a longer perspective, IIoT devices could be part of an IACS as a real-time critical
component, providing measurement feedback or process control.
3.4 System and Component security
requirements and security levels
IEC 62243-3-3 and 4-2 describe system and component security
requirements and security levels. It aims to provide requirements
for the IACS, based on the seven foundation requirements (FR):
(1) Identification and authentication control (IAC);
(2) Use control (UC);
(3) System integrity (SI);
(4) Data confidentiality (DC);
(5) Restricted data flow (RDF);
(6) Timely response to events (TRE);
(7) Resource availability (RA).
Each foundation requirement has a purpose statement, and defines four security levels (i.e., SL 1-4), for example for the data
confidentiality FR the levels are defined as follows:
SL 1 Prevent the unauthorized disclosure of information via eavesdropping or casual exposure.
SL 2 Prevent the unauthorized disclosure of information to an
entity actively searching for it using simple means with low
resources, generic skills and low motivation.
SL 3 Prevent the unauthorized disclosure of information to an
entity actively searching for it using sophisticated means
with moderate resources, IACS specific skills and moderate
motivation.
SL 4 Prevent the unauthorized disclosure of information to an entity actively searching for it using sophisticated means with
extended resources, IACS specific skills and high motivation.
The higher the security level a control system reaches for a
specific FR, the more persistent against an attack on that area the
system should be. Typically SL 1 will protect against accidental
leaks or low-motivation, low-resource attackers, whereas SL 4 will
prevent attacks from a highly motivated and resourceful adversary. There is also an implicit SL 0, indicating no specific security
protection necessary.
The FR are detailed in System Requirements (SR) and additional
Requirement Enhancements (RE) which are related to the different
security levels for the FR.
There is a special notion of essential functions, being required
to maintain health, safety and environmental concerns. Essential
functions cannot be negatively impacted by implementation of
security requirements, e.g., accounts used for essential functions
shall not be locked out, security functions shall not add significant
delay on time-critical essential functions. This can lead to difficult
trade-offs between availability and the other security objectives in
the case of certain types of attacks and countermeasures.
Applicability of the IEC 62443 standard in Industry 4.0 / IIoT ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom
In principal, when using these parts of the standard, the desired
SL for a specific IACS or component is selected for each of the
seven FR. This will lead to a number of SR and additional RE being applicable to the system. Each of these requirements must be
fulfilled for the target SL to be reached. This also means that there
is a (relatively) easy way to assess to which degree a certain SL is
reached with regards to a specific FR.
In IEC62443-4-2 component requirements (CRs) are described,
in a similar way as the system requirements. They are classified
into four categories:
(1) Software Application Requirements (SAR);
(2) Embedded Device Requirements (EDR);
(3) Host Device Requirements (HDR);
(4) Network Device Requirements (NDR).
It is common that requirements are the same for all type of components, and therefore expressed only as general CRs.
(1) Software application - one or more programs/services that interacts with the process or control system and are executing
on an embedded or host device;
(2) Embedded device - a specific purpose device with specialized
hardware and firmware developed to fulfill that purpose.
Typically the device is directly or indirectly involved into
monitoring or controlling a physical process and has realtime requirements to fulfill;
(3) Host device - a general purpose device with capabilities of
running several services, usually with an “open” OS, e.g.,
Windows or Linux;
(4) Network device - a device that facilitate (or limits) data flow
between devices, but does not directly interact with the process.
Common component Security Constraints comprise a number
of constraints applicable to the components that may restrict the
implementation of some security functions. Some examples of constraints are: essential functionality must be sustained, least privilege
shall be used when appropriate, etc.
3.5 Secure development of IACS Components
IEC 62443-4-1 describes the best practices to follow when implementing IACS components. The standard is based partly on the
Secure Development Life-cycle Assessment (SDLA) certification, as
described by ISCI [9]. The document aims to support component
suppliers. It is divided into eight main practices:
(1) Secure Management;
(2) Specification of security requirements;
(3) Secure by Design;
(4) Secure implementation;
(5) Secure validation and testing;
(6) Management of security related issues;
(7) Security update management;
(8) Security guidelines.
Each practice is described in detail, and divided into related requirements. The requirements are in the most cases described as a
need for the development organization to have a process fulfilling
specific goals, e.g., “Security requirements review (SR-5): A process shall be employed to ensure that security requirements are Actuator Sensor
DCS
Controller
SCADA
GW
Appl.
PLC
Actuator Sensor Actuator Sensor
DCS
Controller
Control
Edge
device
Appl.
Appl.
App store
Vendor
Cloud
ERP
MES
CBM
PLM
etc.
Ext. Data
cloud
Figure 2: An example of an IIoT architecture [20]
reviewed, updated as necessary and approved to ensure clarity,
validity, alignment with the threat model, and their ability to be
verified.”
If a product supplier is following these practices during the
development life-cycle of an IACS component, the component will
be able to comply to a specific SL over time, and will be secured by
a defense in depth strategy.
Similarly as for the IACS service provider, the Capability Maturity Model Integration for development (CMMI-DEV) is used in
the standard as a benchmark for a product supplier to indicate or
self-assess to what degree the secure development processes for
each practice are followed.
4 ASSESSMENT OF IEC 62443 IN RELATION
TO IIOT
As IIoT devices and services are being increasingly adopted into
IACS systems they increase the potential attack surface of the system, as they often live at the edge of the network, i.e., communicate
over the zone boundaries.
To not deteriorate the security characteristics of an IACS, as IIoT
technology is introduced, it would be desirable to use the IEC 62443
standard to reassess the system, as well as for initial assessments if
greenfield IACS implementations utilizing IIoT are provided.
4.1 IIoT systems - an architectural view
An asset in IIoT can be seen as the sum of all devices and services
containing functionality or data for that asset. The system for an
asset could be comprised by different services for current and historical process data, such as current control set-point, historical data
for power consumption, data from a connected vibration sensor,
alarm and event-lists, and control logic. It also includes maintenance
log and plans, software publisher services for the asset firmware
and related services, graphical representation of asset as used in a
control room, CAD drawings, asset vendor services, etc. At the high
level it gathers analytics using data related to the asset to perform
long term resource planning or process optimization. Therefore we
ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom Björn Leander, Aida Čaušević, and Hans Hansson
can conclude that the whole IIoT system can be subsequently seen
as a system of such systems.
In Figure 2, a simplified generic IIoT architecture is presented,
the architecture is inspired by the one described by Schriegel et.
al [20]. The architecture is based on the automation pyramid, extended with some of the concepts from a typical IIoT system. As
can be seen from this simplified architecture, many of the functions traditionally kept in the IT network now can be realized in
an on-site or remote cloud, with applications like Condition Based
Monitoring (CBM), Product Life-cycle Management (PLM) and Manufacturing Execution Systems (MES). Data can be flowing directly
from devices to cloud, or via edge nodes, allowing shorter analysis/decision cycles. There might be third party vendors collecting
and possibly sharing information on assets (via Vendor Cloud). Different services/devices might be implemented with different cloud
architectures in mind, requiring cross cloud integration (i.e., Ext.
Data cloud). There might be local or remote software publishing
services for patch management, adding functionality or enabling
interoperability (i.e., App Store in the cloud). There might even be
control logic being executed in a cloud or edge-device. Many of the
characteristics of the traditional automation pyramid do no longer
hold such as:
(1) No strict and predefined communication paths following the
hierarchical levels.
(2) There might be real-time requirements at many levels.
(3) Possible mix of OT and IT functionalities at any level.
Based on these assumptions in an IIoT architecture we depict in
Figure 2, we take a look at the standard and discuss the parts of the
standard mostly impacted by this change.
4.2 Security zones and network segmentation
in IIoT
The concept of security zones is central in IEC 62443. Given a heterogeneous IIoT system containing numerous interconnected devices
and services that also utilize cloud technologies, one can raise the
question whether the idea of zoning is still valid. Considering the
brownfield scenario, where devices or services are introduced into
one security zone, and those devices have network connectivity to
other less protected zones, that will at least make the zone more
susceptible to attacks. However, if components used for controlling
a critical process are still isolated in a separate zone, and IIoT devices or services used for monitoring the critical process are kept in
another network, the dividing into security zones clearly provide
additional safety. In the Reference Architecture for Industry 4.0
(RAMI4.0) [6], it is suggested that there should be separate networks
for direct process control.
In IEC 62443-3-1, the guidance (c. 6.2.7) states that only network
traffic directed from the IACS towards the IT-network should be
allowed. To make use of many of the advantages promised by IIoT,
analytics will in many cases be performed in e.g., a cloud environment. Results from the analysis could be an updated configuration
for a device to trim performance, including altering set-points. For
this to work through such a firewall the communication protocol
would need access to the device itself or a related service to regularly request the analytic engine for e.g., updated configurations.
Keeping network segmentation rules intact can be a challenge
considering an increasing amount of the devices in the control
system being IIoT devices with services distributed over the deviceto-cloud continuum. Considering SR 5.2 - Zone boundary protection
stating (at SL 2), network traffic crossing a zone boundary should be
denied by default and allowed by exception only. Implementation
of this will require a considerable amount of configuration efforts
for every IIoT device added to the control system.
SR1.13 in IEC 62443-3-3 discusses access via an untrusted network, requesting the control system to monitor and control all
access via such a network. In principle the guidance is that such
communication paths should not exist, and if they exist, the control
system should have capabilities to disable them. Both wireless and
possibly untrusted networks will be a common interaction point
for IIoT devices. SR1.6 and SR1.13 will in many ways be contradictory to allow some of the basic functionalities of an IIoT. These
requirements could possibly be adapted so that communication
over untrusted networks could be allowed, if the devices themselves fulfill specific requirements.
A novel network technology for an IIoT system with increasing
popularity is Software Defined Networks (SDN), discussed in [1,
20, 21]. SDN is adopted from cloud computing technologies, and
is characterized by dynamic configuration of the network by a
central node, with the aim to optimize performance based on current
application. This approach fits quite well with the dynamic nature
of interconnections between devices and services in Industry 4.0,
where applications may shift and communication paths may not be
well known in advance. However, this technology seems to be in
conflict with the physically or logically well defined and separated
networks being protected by physical firewalls in strategic nodes
as prescribed by the IEC 62443 standard.
Considering the IIoT paradigm where the communication paths
are not confined within isolated networks, the need to use endto-end security is apparent [8]. There are several cryptographical
methods emerging that are relatively low-cost with regards to computational and bandwidth utilization, e.g. compressed versions of
DTLS [18], which could enable using end-to-end security as a standard in IACS components. For some constrained devices, end-to-end
security may still prove too costly with regards to resource consumption. In such cases specific edge nodes can be used to provide
security functions for a collection of constrained devices.
4.3 Patch management in IIoT
The patch management guidelines, described in IEC 62443-2-3,
seems to be infeasible in a number of situations when used in an
IIoT system:
(1) The number of devices and services involved in IIoT substantially exceeds that of a typical IACS, making the work
of monitoring and updating devices infeasible;
(2) A fair share of the IIoT devices will be Internet-facing or
at least communicate using wireless technology, meaning
that a postponed or deferred security-related update for a
device could lead to an unacceptable risk of the device being
compromised;
Applicability of the IEC 62443 standard in Industry 4.0 / IIoT ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom
(3) For the devices or services not being directly involved in
controlling the physical process, following these guidelines
may be too strict.
Because of the high cost and effort compared to the risk of not
applying a specific patch, decisions often weighs in favour of not
applying the patch, or at least delaying it until a planned maintenance stop. As a consequence, many executing IACS are not being
patched to the most recent software versions, both with regards to
OS and application software, potentially resulting in:
• Decreasing SL(achieved) that increases the risk of the IACS
being compromised;
• Incompatibilities between system parts;
• Degradation of system performance and reliability.
Secure patch management is of increasing importance in the IIoT
system, but the suggested guidelines are both too strict in some
sense and not strict enough in other. For an IIoT systems, there
might be a need to classify devices and services based on criticality, and for the less critical components to allow, or even require,
automatic patch management, e.g., based on TUF [3] or similar
methodology that ensures update integrity. There are new guidelines, methods, and protocols being developed that address secure
patch management. For example, the IETF Secure Update of IoTdevices (suit) work group is currently working on an architecture
related to this [14].
There is an ongoing trend in software development towards
DevOps [5], that most likely will affect the release cycles of some
components in an IACS. DevOps is a result of combining agile
software development methods with IT operations, shortening the
development life-cylce and thereby the releases of a component
will be more frequent and possibly without any specific periodicity.
Typically a published code will push for an automatic build after
which automatic tests are executed and the software is packaged. If
test results are acceptable the update can be released, and possibly
automatically pulled by the device instances running the software.
Another trend in software development gaining in interest in
the last five years, that might impact how patch management will
work in the future IACS, is the shift from classical virtualization
using a hypervisor towards containerized services. Since a container execution environments provides some of the benefits from
virtualization, without bringing in the overhead of emulating the
OS, it could be useful as providing service execution at simpler
host devices [19], e.g., the ABB Ability Edge relies on the Docker
container environment.
Both DevOps and a container technology will push towards automatic patch management. For an IACS owner this will lead to
increased simplicity for the technical work related to patch management, but will add a risk of less control over the system. Future
version of IEC 62443-2-3 could include guidelines on how to maintain and monitor a system comprised of heterogeneous devices and
services, as well as include a description on requirements for an automatic secure patch management method. Facilitating automated
patch management could help in preserving the achieved security
level for the system, as well as decreasing the amount of time a
known bug prevails in a specific component.
4.4 System/component requirements and
security technologies in IIoT
When assessing the requirements in detail, the majority remains
applicable in an IIoT perspective, as well. Some might however
need to be revised within the new context.
The standard only briefly mentions the need for service authorization, stating that this is usually not implemented and/or used
in IACS. For IIoT, this will be of great importance, as most of the
interactions will be machine-to-machine.
Host firewalls are also discussed as being not commonly used
in the IACS environment, as IACS product vendor typically do
not allow it, along with any other third party SW, since it might
affect the operability of the IACS. In IIoT systems, it would be
natural at least to require that devices with direct Internet connectivity deploy micro-firewalls for added protection. Intrusion
detection and prevention systems could also form an important
line of defense, however, for these systems to work effectively in
an IIoT environment, the cost must be lowered and the monitoring
must be highly automated. The IDS and firewalls will also face an
increasing amount of encrypted traffic, making state-full packet
inspection more difficult when employed at intermediate network
nodes, possibly deterring their effectiveness in e.g., attack-pattern
recognition.
In the perspective of IIoT, both symmetric and public key encryption will be needed for some of the data-flows, especially for
sensitive information that must be transferred to cloud storage
for e.g., Big Data analysis. However, in traditional IACS, encryption is rarely used. Using encryption mechanisms comes with a
cost both on bandwidth and CPU utilization - especially with regards to asymmetric cryptography. It is therefore of importance
to assess the required protection level for specific sets of data, so
that the appropriate algorithm is chosen. In the guidance from
IEC 62443-3-1 with regards to encryption, it is acknowledged that
encryption technologies will be of growing importance in the future, increasingly connected IACS, but the guidance currently only
covers symmetric cryptography. It is suggested that any devices
utilizing cryptography should be certified according to some well
known security standard, e.g., FIPS 140-2 [16], to provide probability that the cryptographic algorithms used are implemented
according to the state of the art. This may be a good guidance, but
it will possibly prove difficult to follow for any device and service
developer. It could be argued that compliance to SDLA, or evidence
of using an industry standard approved cryptographic libraries can
be used to strengthen trustworthiness of IACS components using
cryptography.
Audit logs for user activities are discussed, e.g., access control
events, however, for devices or services activities, audit logs are
not discussed in depth, but should be of increasing importance
from an IIoT perspective. Especially regarding automatic collection
and analysis of audit logs combined with an automatic counter-act
system for detected anomalies. This should be useful in a scenario
with a large number of access points. Exactly what information
should be logged regarding machine-to-machine communication
could be elaborated. The guidance states that security related data
e.g., user account creation or failed logins should be logged, but for
the IIoT scenario there might be additional information that are of
ARES ’19, August 26–29, 2019, Canterbury, United Kingdom Björn Leander, Aida Čaušević, and Hans Hansson
interest, e.g., device discovery and disconnect, protocol handshakes
resulting in a protocol version degradation, etc.
A vulnerability scanning for IIoT-devices could be a useful way of
assessing the device security characteristics. To enable a vulnerability scanner in an IIoT system, the information needed to understand
how to perform a scan and classify vulnerabilities with regards to a
wide range of devices with widely different execution environments
should exist. In the guidance, vulnerability scanners are suggested
to be used mainly on hosts running standard operating systems.
Host Configuration Management (HCM) tools for centrally managing resources and user accounts are discussed in the standard as
not being widely used in IACS. Due to the heterogeneous nature
of an IACS system, current HCM tools are not adequate as they
typically target only one kind of operating system. For an IIoT
system, the diversity of devices will be even a bigger issue, at the
same time as the need for efficient and centralized management
is of great importance. Possibly parts of this management will be
automatically executed in an IIoT system.
5 CONCLUSIONS
IEC 62443 is a well known and widely used standard within industrial automation. It describes requirements and the best practice
for development, integration and assessments of components and
systems related to an IACS with regards to cybersecurity. The emergence of the IIoT paradigm adds a new dimension to be considered
compared to traditional IACS. Given the expected complexity of
such systems, our aim was to perform an analysis of the IEC 62443
standards and asses its applicability with regards to IIoT. We have
noticed that several parts of IEC 62443 are already well suited for
use in the context of IIoT systems. However, a number of concepts
as described in the standard may prove difficult to comply with,
specifically including
(1) Security zone boundaries will be more difficult to withhold
due to the dynamic characteristics of an IIoT system.
(2) Communication over zone boundaries will be a requirement
for many IIoT devices and services in order to provide any
value, something which is currently discouraged by the standard.
(3) For software updates, a significant level of automation of
updates will be needed for IIoT devices and services. It is
currently not described in the standard if and how such
automation can be supported.
Apart from additional guidance on these challenges, there is also
a need for technology that might not yet be available, e.g., microfirewalls for IIoT devices, vulnerability scanners for IIoT systems,
HCM tools spanning IIoT devices and services.
As future work, it may additionally be useful to take a look at
related standards and recommendations, compare and potentially
get inspiration for complementing IEC 62443. Examples of relevant
related standards include the NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity [15] and the suit architecture for
secure updates of IoT devices [14]. Additionally, Industrial Internet
Consortium has developed a security framework as a part of its
reference architecture (IIC IIRA G4) [8].
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is supported by the industrial postgraduate school Automation Region Research Academy (ARRAY), and the SAFSEC-CPS
project, both funded by The Knowledge Foundation. In addition,
ABB has provided funding. The authors would like to acknowledge
Judith Rossebø and Tomas Lindström for their feedback.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Al-Rubaye, E. Kadhum, Q. Ni, and A. Anpalagan. 2019. Industrial Internet of
Things Driven by SDN Platform for Smart Grid Resiliency. IEEE Internet of Things
Journal 6, 1 (Feb 2019), 267–277. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2017.2734903
[2] Hugh Boyes, Bil Hallaq, Joe Cunningham, and Tim Watson. 2018. The industrial
internet of things (IIoT): An analysis framework. Computers in Industry 101, June
(2018), 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2018.04.015
[3] Cappos, Justin et. al. 2019. The Update Framework. (2019). Retrieved May 13,
2019 from https://theupdateframework.github.io/
[4] CMMI Institute 2019. CMMI Services. (2019). Retrieved May 14, 2019 from
https://cmmiinstitute.com/cmmi/svc
[5] C. Ebert, G. Gallardo, J. Hernantes, and N. Serrano. 2016. DevOps. IEEE Software
33, 3 (May 2016), 94–100. https://doi.org/10.1109/MS.2016.68
[6] IEC. 2016. Smart Manufacturing - Reference Architecture Module Industry 4.0
(RAMI4.0). Technical Report. Internation Electrotechnical Commission. 1–35
pages.
[7] IEC 62443 2009-2018. IEC 62443 Security for Industrial Automation and Control
Systems. Standard. Internation Electrotechnical Commission, Geneva, CH.
[8] Industrial Internet Consortium. 2016. Industrial Internet of Things Volume G4
: Security Framework. Technical Report IIC:PUB:G4:V1.0:PB:20160919. 1–173
pages. https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.28143.23201
[9] ISA Security Compliance Institute. 2014. Security Development Life-cycle Assurance - Certification Requirement, rev 1.3. Technical Report SDLA-300.
[10] ISASecure 2019. IEC 62443-4-2 - EDSA Certification. (2019). Retrieved May 2, 2019 from http://www.isasecure.org/en-US/Certification/
IEC-62443-Edsa-Certification
[11] Richard Kissel. 2013. Glossary of key information security terms, Revision 2. U.S.
Dept. of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology.
[12] William Knowles, Daniel Prince, David Hutchison, Jules Ferdinand Pagna Disso,
and Kevin Jones. 2015. A survey of cyber security management in industrial
control systems. International Journal of Critical Infrastructure Protection 9 (2015),
52 – 80. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2015.02.002
[13] Robert M Lee, Michael J Assante, and Tim Conway. 2016. Analysis of the Cyber
Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid. Technical Report. SANS.
[14] Brendan Moran, Milosch Meriac, Hannes Tschofenig, and David Brown. 2019. A
Firmware Update Architecture for Internet of Things Devices. Internet-Draft draftietf-suit-architecture-05. Internet Engineering Task Force. https://datatracker.
ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-suit-architecture-05 Work in Progress.
[15] NIST. 2018. Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Technical Report. 1–55 pages. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.04162018
[16] NIST. 2019. Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules. Technical Report.
1–11 pages. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.140-3
[17] North American Electric Reliability Corporation 2019. CIP Standards. (2019).
Retrieved May 9, 2019 from http://www.nerc.com/pa/Stand/pages/cipstandards.
aspx
[18] S. Raza, H. Shafagh, K. Hewage, R. Hummen, and T. Voigt. 2013. Lithe: Lightweight
Secure CoAP for the Internet of Things. IEEE Sensors Journal 13, 10 (Oct 2013),
3711–3720. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2013.2277656
[19] Joao Rufino, Muhammad Alam, Joaquim Ferreira, Abdur Rehman, and Kim Fung
Tsang. 2017. Orchestration of containerized microservices for IIoT using Docker.
In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology. IEEE,
1532–1536. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915594
[20] Sebastian Schriegel, Thomas Kobzan, and Jurgen Jasperneite. 2018. Investigation
on a distributed SDN control plane architecture for heterogeneous time sensitive
networks. IEEE International Workshop on Factory Communication Systems -
Proceedings, WFCS 2018-June (2018), 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1109/WFCS.2018.
8402356
[21] J. Wan, S. Tang, Z. Shu, D. Li, S. Wang, M. Imran, and A. V. Vasilakos. 2016.
Software-Defined Industrial Internet of Things in the Context of Industry 4.0.
IEEE Sensors Journal 16, 20 (Oct 2016), 7373–7380. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.
2016.2565621
[22] Theodore J. Williams. 1994. The Purdue enterprise reference architecture. Computers in Industry 24, 2 (1994), 141 – 158. https://doi.org/10.1016/0166-3615(94)
90017-5