Abstract:
The standards family IEC 62443 represents an international agreement on best practices for securing Industrial Automation Control Systems (IACS). Engineering projects have to address security, but have limits on cost and resources, which makes it particularly challenging to cover all security topics adequately, as prescribed by IEC 62443. We developed a framework that supports engineering projects in addressing the whole range of security aspects more effectively and efficiently. The framework is structured horizontally and vertically. Horizontally, the framework consists of a set artefacts that cover the security aspects as prescribed by IEC-62443, and that need to be filled out by an engineering project. The vertical structure reflects the organizational hierarchy. In each hierarchical layer, the artefact templates are enriched by increasingly detailed and specific guidance in the form of best practices and references. This enables the exchange and reuse of security designs and best practices across the organization. We describe our experiences in applying the framework in large scale industry projects.
Published in: 2018 IEEE International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering Workshops (ISSREW)
Date of Conference: 15-18 October 2018
Date Added to IEEE Xplore: 18 November 2018
ISBN Information:
DOI: 10.1109/ISSREW.2018.00-33
Publisher: IEEE
Conference Location: Memphis, TN, USA
SECTION I.Introduction
Achieving adequate security for systems designed and deployed in an engineering project is an important yet complex task. At the same time, digitalization is making security increasingly important. This work is aimed at engineering projects in a particular domain: Control and automation for industrial plants, infrastructure, and facilities.

The challenge that engineering projects face is that defense-in-depth security for a system requires addressing a heterogeneous and broad range of security topics, including network security, user authentication, secure configuration and hardening of operating system, logging, encryption, and secure channels. It is a common pitfall to focus on some topics in depth, while overlooking others, and our framework aims at avoiding that pitfall in projects,

For each of these topics, there exist plenty of technical solutions, tools, and best practices. So in general, engineering projects do not have to develop technical security solutions on their own. But to chose a suitable solution for each security topic from the available resources still requires time and expertise, which project teams often lack. So project teams needs specific guidance on each of the security topics, and our framework aims at providing such guidance in form of references to specific resources.

Another challenge is that security topics have to be coordinated and communicated between different roles and stakeholders, as shown in Figure 1, and as defined by IEC 62443 [1]. The IEC 62443 family of standards defines roles and their security tasks: System integrators provide a secure design that matches the exposure, threats, impacts, and the physical and technical operational environment as provided by the asset owner. The system integrator also defines and applies secure configuration, and performs verification and validation. System integrators need security information about the components e.g. how to configure a component securely. Product suppliers implement security measures, such as authentication, secure communication capabilities, or robust communication stacks in the components, as part of the product development process. Asset owners address secure operation and maintenance, for example dealing with account management and handling of credentials, and with regular security patching. For that, asset owners need sufficient documentation and manuals. These roles need to work together to obtain adequate security along the whole lifecycle of a system. Lack of adequate information or different interpretation of security topics impede the joint efforts of the various stakeholders.

As engineering projects are performed by system integrators, this is the role central to the scope addressed in our work. For system integrators, mainly the parts 3–3 [2] and 2–4 [3] of IEC 62443 are relevant. Part 3–3 prescribes the full range of technical defense-in-depth security for a system, while part 2–4 covers the procedural aspects between system integrator and asset owner, e.g. support patch management. In particular, part 2–4 prescribes information and documentation that the system integrator has to provide to the asset owner.

We found that these two parts of IEC 62443 provided an excellent frame for our primary goal: To guide the project teams in addressing the full range of security topics of part 3–3, in addition providing them with specific guidance and references, and to support them in producing the documentation required by part 2–4.

At the same time, asset owners and regulators increasingly ask for certification according to IEC 62443. Our framework supports certification by providing a consistent interpretation of the requirements of IEC 62443 part 3–3 and part 2–4 for all stakeholders. Ambiguities, which are due to the generic nature of the standards, are resolved for the organization and its subunits, as shown in Section VI. Moreover, part 2–4 defines the documentation for the asset owner implicitly, whereas the proposed artefacts of our approach provide specific guidance on what to document.

Fig. 1. - Roles in IEC 62443 and their relation to processes

Fig. 1.
Roles in IEC 62443 and their relation to processes

Show All

In Section III we introduce our framework, and describe the different aspects in Section IV, Section V, and Section VI. We have applied the framework in several organizational units that act as system integrators and that are working to obtain certifications with respect to part 3–3 and 2–4 of IEC 62443. We discuss the experiences we gained in Section VII.

SECTION II.Related Work
To the best of our knowledge no approach currently exists to ensure completeness w.r.t IEC 62443 requirements, as well as re-use of certification artefacts for the IEC 62443 standard. Therefore, we describe the related work based on the well-researched standards ISO 27001 and Common Criteria. Note that ISO 27001 prescribes an information security management system (ISMS), a process for securing a specific part of a company, while the Common Criteria prescribes documentation requirements for hard-or software systems. IEC 62443 addresses technical and process requirements together. For ISO 27001 several guides exist that support its realization e.g. Calder [4], Kersten [5] and [6]. All of the authors provide high level suggestion of how to shape an ISMS, but in contrast to our work do not provide reusable artefacts. In addition, Cheremushkin et al. [7] present a UML-based meta-model for several terms of the ISO 27000, e.g., assets. These meta-models can be instantiated and, thus, support security analyses. Different from our contribution, these authors do not provide certification-ready artefacts. Montesino et al. investigate if the realization of ISO 27001 controls can be supported by automated tools [8].

Based on the Common Criteria Mellado et al. [9] created the Security Requirements Engineering Process (SREP). SREP is an iterative and incremental security requirements engineering process that follows the structure of the Common Criteria. Ardi et al. [10] extend the CC Security Target document with a section that considers knowledge of existing vulnerabilities. In contrast to our contribution, both works do not support engineers in the creation of certification-ready artefacts. Finally, Beckers [11] proposed several methodologies of how to reuse and adapt artefacts of security requirements engineering methods in ISO 27001 and Common Criteria certifications. However, this work is limited to the requirements engineering parts of the standards.

Fig. 2. - Clustering of security documents

Fig. 2.
Clustering of security documents

Show All

SECTION III.The Security Framework for Engineering Projects
The Security Framework for Engineering Projects (SFEP) consists of a horizontal and a vertical dimension. On the horizontal dimension, SFEP defines a set of Security Documents (artefacts) that an engineering project needs to produce. Figure 2 shows the set of Security Documents, and Section IV provides an overview of the content of the different documents.

Fig. 3. - Creation of security documents as part of project execution of system integrator

Fig. 3.
Creation of security documents as part of project execution of system integrator

Show All

For each Security Document, SFEP defines a document structure, with sections for each security topic that has to be covered by that document. For each security topic, there are subsections that provide the following information.

IEC 62443: The requirements of IEC 62443-3-3 and IEC 62332-2-4 that match the security topic are referenced.

Guidance: A short explanation of the security topic, best practices for security designs and solutions to address the topic, and references to organization-specific resources, components, and tools.

Documentation of security measures. This section is to be completed by the project team as part of the engineering project, and documents how the security topic is addressed for the system. The document structure provides tables in order make the documentation easier.

See Figure 5 for an example of the subsections.

The vertical structure of SFEP reflects the organizational hierarchy, and is explained in Section VI. See Figure 6 for a graphical view. In each hierarchical layer, the subsection ‘Guidance’ is enriched by increasingly detailed and specific information and references, which are developed by central security groups or other project teams. It is important to note that the Security Documents of the SFEP are the output a security activity that is performed as part of the project execution process, as shown in Figure 3. It would be error-prone and inefficient to write the Security Documents in a separate effort at the end of the project. On the left-hand side of Figure 3, the security activities that have to be executed as part of the project execution process are shown. Each row contains the related documents of the SFEP that are the output of security activity. In fact, SFEP provides an artefact-based process description of the security activities in a engineering project.

To summarize, SFEP supports the project teams in addressing security by:

Guiding the project team effectively with the information in the subsection ‘Guidance’.

Supporting completeness with regard to IEC 62443: The documentation requirements of IEC 62443-2-4 are met by producing the Security Documents. The technical security requirements of IEC 62443-3-3 are covered by different sections of the Security Documents, in particular in the ‘Technical security design’.

Simplifying the information exchange between stakeholders with predefined document structures that are familiar to all.

Resolving ambiguities by using consistent terminology, and explaining and referencing interdependencies between the security topics in the different Security Documents.

SECTION IV.Overview of Security Documents for an Engineering Project
The Security Documents of an Engineering Project can be clustered into four areas, as shown in Figure 2. The problem description contains documents that are required as basis for the security activities and the other documents: ‘Protection goals’, the ‘Security requirements’, the ‘Intended operational environment’, i.e. the security characteristics of the operational environment of the system, and the ‘Threat & risk analysis’.

The following list provides a brief overview of the Security Documents that describe the security of the system in terms of technical documentation and operational documentation:

‘System overview and zones’ identifies the components, interfaces, and communication connections of the system. It is important to describe the location of security measures with respect to the System Overview.

‘Technical security design’ is the main document of the SFEP, and is described in more depth in Section V.

‘Secure configuration & hardening manual’ defines the detailed security-related settings of the components and their different layers (application, OS, physical), to ensure that the security measures described in ‘Technical security design’ work correctly as intended, and that the attack surface of the system is reduced.

‘Secure operation manual’ provides the information that asset owners need to operate and maintain the security measures in the system, as part of their operational procedures, e.g. based on ISO 27001 [12] or IEC 62443-2-1 [13]. The goal of the ‘Secure operation manual’ is to provide all security aspects related to the system and its components that are required as input for these operational procedures. Examples are specific instructions on performing malware sanitation before connecting a service laptop to the system, or restrictions of software installation by users. Note that the ‘Secure configuration & hardening manual’ contains the technical descriptions of settings (e.g. account configuration), so there are a lot of interdependencies between this document and the ‘Secure configuration & hardening manual’.

‘Security update management procedures’ describes the support the system integrator provides for security update management in order to prevent the exploitation of known vulnerabilities in system components. Standard 3rd party software is typically handled differently from dedicated software in the system. Various aspects have to be described, e.g. information provided together with patches, the schedules for providing patches, classification scheme for rating criticality, and instructions on the distribution and installation of patches.

‘Malware protection procedures’ describes the configuration of anti-malware components, and the distribution of pattern updates.

Fig. 4. - Structuring of technical security measures into six topic areas

Fig. 4.
Structuring of technical security measures into six topic areas

Show All

The validation and verification documentation is the output of the various verifcation and validation activities of project execution. ‘TRA summary’ documents the threats that have been identified, and how these have been addressed by risk treatment. Risk treatment is based on the security measures as described in the ‘Technical security design’. The ‘Security test plan’ contains the information required for security testing, to make sure that security testing achieves its objectives. This includes the scope and validation depth, and a description of the testing tools and infrastructure. ‘Security test cases’ documents the test cases, which cover the measures of the ‘Secure configuration & hardening manual’ as well as the security measures of the ‘Technical security design’. For each test case, the security testing tools that have to be used, and their configuration, are decribed. The ‘Security test results’ document the outcome of the security test cases.

SECTION V.Taking a Closer Look: Technical Security Design
We explain in more detail the central Security Document of SFEP, namely the ‘Technical security design’, which describes the security measures of the system. The document is divided into six chapters, each covering one of the security topics shown in the blue boxes in Figure 4. The figure also shows examples for a security measure for each topic. We take a closer look at the chapter on the security topic ‘Identity and access management’. Figure 5 provides an example of the detailed content of the first section of the chapter: Authentication mechanisms. In particular, the figure shows examples of tables, which are provided as part of the structure, and have to be filled out as part of an engineering project.

The other sections of the chapter on identity and access management are:

Authentication of users

Authentication of components

Management of identifiers and credentials

Account management and configuration of access rights and privileges

Control of access via untrusted networks (remote access).

SECTION VI.Hierachical Layers of the Security Framework for Engineering Projects
The vertical dimension of the SFEP reflects the layers of the organization, as shown in Figure 6. More precisely, the set of Security Documents is instantiated in layers. For each instantiation, the content becomes more specific and detailled. The reason is that the the guidance in the documents should be as specific as possible. Some guidance applies to the whole organization, and is provided by the central security group. An example for guidance could be that firewalls have to be used at the boundary of all zones that have communication connections with devices outside the zone.

Fig. 5. - Structure of a chapter in the ‘technical security design’, with sections: References, guidance(shortened), documentation of security measures

Fig. 5.
Structure of a chapter in the ‘technical security design’, with sections: References, guidance(shortened), documentation of security measures

Show All

The organization consists of different units that produce different types of systems. The security group of a unit provides specific guidance and resources with respect to the type of systems of the unit. For example, Unit A has implemented a specific security gateway, and adds a description and links to that implementation to the instantiation of the SFEP documents for Unit A. Another example is a specific anti-malware solution that is used across projects of Unit A. A unit typically manages a set of Standard Solutions, which are reference solution that provides a technical template for systems for a specific domain, e.g. where the system design and intended operational environment is expected to be largely similar. On the level of a Standard Solution, all the specific security measures and procedures for the Standard Solution are added to the instantiation of the SFEP Security Documents. The result is a comprehensive security documentation for the Standard Solution.

Standard Solutions are the basis of engineering projects. Only small adaptations might be necessary if e.g. there are project-specific additional communication interfaces. The Security Documents of the Standard Solution have to be adapted accordingly, and the result is the security documentation for the engineering project, created with minimal effort. As part of the development of SFEP, the central security group, which includes some of the authors of this paper, have provided the top-layer of the SFEP document structures. Section V gives an impression of the level of detail on the top layer. Then the security group of an organizational unit worked out the refinement for that unit, as well as further refinements for several of their Standard Solutions. Two project teams have been closely involved in compiling the content on the layer of Standard Solutions.

Fig. 6. - Hierarchical layers of the sfep

Fig. 6.
Hierarchical layers of the sfep

Show All

SECTION VII.Experiences
We developed the SFEP based on the experience gained from supporting engineering projects across the organization over more than ten years, and from supporting security groups to reach compliance to IEC 62443 since the different parts of that standard were being developed. The experience went into the structure of the documents, e.g. the different chapters of the ‘Technical security design’, and intned the guidance and hints for the different security topics.

Piloting of SFEP involved three organizational units, where the SFEP has been applied at different layers as described in Section VI. We closely accompanied the piloting projects in order to refine the framework. The use of SFEP is planned for more organizational units in the near future.

The security groups of the involved organizational units consider the SFEP to be an effective way to ensure complete coverage of security topics and alignment on security measures, as well as to steer projects towards certification-readiness with IEC 62443. In fact, one unit is currently using the SFEP to prepare for certification with respect to IEC 62443 parts 3–3 [2] and 2–4 [3].

For the involved projects, the SFEP was seen as an enabler for security. Projects typically have tight restrictions on resources, and if less effort needs to be spent on researching, structuring, and documenting security topics, more effort can be used for further improvements on the actual security measures. The framework provides the possibility to document and reuse these security improvements.

Large projects in particular have the challenge that security affects different disciplines (e.g. network, software applications, firmware) that are involved in the project, and the SFEP provides them with a common language to work together on security. On an organizational level, the SFEP facilitates exchange and re-use between units that develop components, units that work as system integrators, and service units. Over time, we expect substantial improvements in the handling of security topics across interfacing units.

SECTION VIII.Conclusions, and Future Work
The SFEP meets the needs of engineering projects by providing the following benefits:

Support for designing, implementing, and documenting adequate security for systems in a cost-effective and harmonised way.

Re-use of security design and best practices at different layers and across domains.

Certification-readiness with regard to part 2–4 and part 3–3 of IEC 62443.

As next step, we will address the challenge of handling the range of documents of the framework by providing tooling. We have started to use a platform that manages the hierarchal layers of documents and provides good support for references between documents and references to other project artefacts like test cases, design specifications, and technical manuals. With help of the platform, we expect to simplify the use of SFEP, and further increase efficiency.

