arXiv:1710.08864v7 [cs.LG] 17 Oct 2019 

One Pixel Attack for Fooling 
Deep Neural Networks 

Jiawei Su*, Danilo Vasconcellos Vargas* and Kouichi Sakurai 

Abstract—Recent research has revealed that the output of Deep 
Neural Networks (DNN) can be easily altered by adding relatively 
small perturbations to the input vector. In this paper, we analyze 
an attack in an extremely limited scenario where only one pixel 
can be modified. For that we propose a novel method for generating 
one-pixel adversarial perturbations based on differential 
evolution (DE). It requires less adversarial information (a black-
box attack) and can fool more types of networks due to the 
inherent features of DE. The results show that 67.97% 
of the 
natural images in Kaggle CIFAR-10 test dataset and 16.04% 
of the ImageNet (ILSVRC 2012) test images can be perturbed 
to at least one target class by modifying just one pixel with 
74.03% 
and 22.91% 
confidence on average. We also show the 
same vulnerability on the original CIFAR-10 dataset. Thus, the 
proposed attack explores a different take on adversarial machine 
learning in an extreme limited scenario, showing that current 
DNNs are also vulnerable to such low dimension attacks. Besides, 
we also illustrate an important application of DE (or broadly 
speaking, evolutionary computation) in the domain of adversarial 
machine learning: creating tools that can effectively generate low-
cost adversarial attacks against neural networks for evaluating 
robustness. 

Index 
Terms—Differential Evolution, Convolutional Neural 
Network, Information Security, Image Recognition. 

I
I
I. INTRODUCTION 
N the domain of image recognition, DNN-based approach 
has outperform traditional image processing techniques, 
achieving even human-competitive results [25]. However, several 
studies have revealed that artificial perturbations on natural 
images can easily make DNN misclassify and accordingly 
proposed effective algorithms for generating such samples 
called “adversarial images” [7][11][18][24]. A common idea 
for creating adversarial images is adding a tiny amount of 
well-tuned additive perturbation, which is expected to be 
imperceptible to human eyes, to a correctly classified natural 
Fig. 1. One-pixel attacks created with the proposed algorithm that success-
image. Such modification can cause the classifier to label the fully fooled three types of DNNs trained on CIFAR-10 dataset: The All 

convolutional network (AllConv), Network in network (NiN) and VGG. The 

modified image as a completely different class. Unfortunately, 

original class labels are in black color while the target class labels and the

most of the previous attacks did not consider extremely limited 

corresponding confidence are given below. 
scenarios for adversarial attacks, namely the modifications 
might be excessive (i.e., the amount of modified pixels is fairly 
large) such that it may be perceptible to human eyes (see Fig-

new insights about the geometrical characteristics and overall 

ure 3 for an example). Additionally, investigating adversarial 

behavior of DNN’s model in high dimensional space [9]. For 

images created under extremely limited scenarios might give 

example, the characteristics of adversarial images close to the 
Authors are with the Graduate School/Faculty of Information Science and decision boundaries can help describing the boundaries’ shape. 
Electrical Engineering, Kyushu University, Japan. The third author is also 
affiliated to Advanced Telecommunications Research Institute International In this paper, by perturbing only one pixel with differential 
(ATR). evolution, we propose a black-box DNN attack in a scenario 
The official version of this article has been published in IEEE Transactions 

where the only information available is the probability labels 

on Evolutionary Computation [65], which can be accessed through the 
following link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8601309 (Figure 1 and 2) Our proposal has mainly the following 

*Both authors have equal contribution. advantages compared to previous works: 



Fig. 2. One-pixel attacks on ImageNet dataset where the modified pixels are 
highlighted with red circles. The original class labels are in black color while 
the target class labels and their corresponding confidence are given below. 

• 
Effectiveness -On Kaggle CIFAR-10 dataset, being able 
to launch non-targeted attacks by only modifying one 
pixel on three common deep neural network structures 
with 68:71%, 71:66% 
and 63:53% 
success rates. We 
additionally find that each natural image can be perturbed 
to 1:8, 2:1 
and 1:5 
other classes. On the original CIFAR10 
dataset with a more limited attack scenario, we show 
22:60%, 35:20% 
and 31:40% 
success rates. On ImageNet 
dataset, non-targeted attacking the BVLC AlexNet model 
also by changing one pixel shows that 16:04% 
of the test 
images can be attacked. 
• 
Semi-Black-Box Attack -Requires only black-box feedback 
(probability labels) but no inner information of 
target DNNs such as gradients and network structures. 
Our method is also simpler than existing approaches since 
it does not abstract the problem of searching perturbation 
to any explicit target functions but directly focus on increasing 
the probability label values of the target classes. 
• 
Flexibility -Can attack more types of DNNs (e.g., 
networks that are not differentiable or when the gradient 
calculation is difficult). 
Regarding the extremely limited one-pixel attack scenario, 
there are several main reasons why we consider it: 

• 
Analyze the Vicinity of Natural Images -Geometrically, 
several previous works have analyzed the vicinity 
of natural images by limiting the length of perturbation 
vector. For example, the universal perturbation adds small 
value to each pixel such that it searches the adversarial 
images in a sphere region around the natural image [14]. 
On the other side, the proposed few-pixel perturbations 
can be regarded as cutting the input space using very low-
dimensional slices, which is a different way of exploring 
the features of high dimensional DNN input space. 
Fig. 3. An illustration of the adversarial images generated by using Jacobian 
saliency-map approach [18]. The perturbation is conducted on about 4% 
of 
the total pixels and can be obvious to human eyes. Since the adversarial pixel 
perturbation has become a common way of generating adversarial images, 
such abnormal “noise” might be recognized with expertise. 

Among them, one-pixel attack is an extreme case of 
several-pixel attack. Theoretically, it can give geometrical 
insight to the understanding of CNN input space, in 
contrast to another extreme case: universal adversarial 
perturbation [14] that modifies every pixel. 

• 
A Measure of Perceptiveness -The attack can be effective 
for hiding adversarial modification in practice. To the 
best of our knowledge, none of the previous works can 
guarantee that the perturbation made can be completely 
imperceptible. A direct way of mitigating this problem 
is to limit the amount of modifications to as few as 
possible. Specifically, instead of theoretically proposing 
additional constraints or considering more complex cost 
functions for conducting perturbation, we propose an 
empirical solution by limiting the number of pixels that 
can be modified. In other words, we use the number of 
pixels as units instead of length of perturbation vector to 
measure the perturbation strength and consider the worst 
case which is one-pixel modification, as well as two other 
scenarios (i.e. 3 and 5 pixels) for comparison. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
The security problem of DNN has become a critical topic 
[1][2]. C. Szegedy et al. first revealed the sensitivity to 
well-tuned artificial perturbation [24] which can be crafted 
by several gradient-based algorithms using back-propagation 
for obtaining gradient information [11][24]. Specifically, 
I.J.Goodfellow et al. proposed “fast gradient sign” algorithm 
for calculating effective perturbation based on a hypothesis 
in which the linearity and high-dimensions of inputs are the 
main reason that a broad class of networks are sensitive to 
small perturbation [11]. S.M. Moosavi-Dezfooli et al. proposed 


a greedy perturbation searching method by assuming the 
linearity of DNN decision boundaries [7]. In addition, N. 
Papernot et al. utilize Jacobian matrix to build “Adversarial 
Saliency Map” which indicates the effectiveness of conducting 
a fixed length perturbation through the direction of each axis 
[18][20]. Except adversarial perturbation, there are other ways 
of creating adversarial images to make the DNN misclassify, 
such as artificial image [16] and rotation [36]. Besides, adversarial 
perturbation can be also possible in other domains such 
as speech recognition [33], natural language processing [34] 
and malware classification [35]. 

A number of detection and defense methods have been also 
proposed to mitigate the vulnerability induced by adversarial 
perturbation [39]. For instance, network distillation which was 
originally proposed for squeezing information of an network 
to a smaller one is found to be able to reduce the network 
sensitivity enhancing the robustness of the neural network [40]. 
Adversarial training [41] is proposed for adding adversarial 
images to the training data such that the robustness against 
known adversarial images can be improved. On the other side, 
some image processing methods are proved to be effective for 
detecting adversarial images. For example, B.Liang et al. show 
that noise reduction methods such as scalar quantization and 
spatial smoothing filter can be selectively utilized for mitigating 
the influence of adversarial perrturbation. By comparing 
the label of an image before and after the transformation the 
perturbation can be detected [43]. The method works well on 
detecting adversarial images with both low and high entropy. 
Similarly, W. Xu et al. show that squeezing color bits and 
local/non-local spatial smoothing can have high success rate on 
distinguishing adversarial images [42]. However, recent studies 
show that many of these defense and detection methods can 
be effectively evaded by conducting little modification on the 
original attacks [45], [46], [60]. 

Several black-box attacks that require no internal knowledge 
about the target systems such as gradients, have also 
been proposed [5][17][15]. In particular, to the best of our 
knowledge, the only work before ours that ever mentioned 
using one-pixel modification to change class labels is carried 
out by N. Narodytska et al[15]. However, differently from 
our work, they only utilized it as a starting point to derive 
a further semi black-box attack which needs to modify more 
pixels (e.g., about 30 pixels out of 1024) without considering 
the scenario of one-pixel attack. In addition, they have neither 
measured systematically the effectiveness of the attack nor 
obtained quantitative results for evaluation. An analysis of 
the one-pixel attack’s geometrical features as well as further 
discussion about its implications are also lacking. 

There have been many efforts to understand DNN by 
visualizing the activation of network nodes [28] [29][30]while 
the geometrical characteristics of DNN boundary have gained 
less attraction due to the difficulty of understanding high-
dimensional space. However, the robustness evaluation of 
DNN with respect to adversarial perturbation might shed light 
in this complex problem [9]. For example, both natural and 
random images are found to be vulnerable to adversarial 
perturbation. Assuming these images are evenly distributed, it 
suggests that most data points in the input space are gathered 

near to the boundaries [9]. In addition, A. Fawzi et al. revealed 
more clues by conducting a curvature analysis. Their conclusion 
is that the region along most directions around natural 
images are flat with only few directions where the space 
is curved and the images are sensitive to perturbation[10]. 
Interestingly, universal perturbations (i.e. a perturbation that 
when added to any natural image can generate adversarial 
images with high effectiveness) were shown possible and 
to achieve a high effectiveness when compared to random 
perturbation. This indicates that the diversity of boundaries 
might be low while the boundaries’ shapes near different data 
points are similar [14]. 

III. METHODOLOGY 
A. Problem Description 
Generating adversarial images can be formalized as an 
optimization problem with constraints. We assume an input 
image can be represented by a vector in which each scalar 
element represents one pixel. Let f 
be the target image 
classifier which receives n-dimensional inputs, x =(x1, 
::, 
xn) 
be the original natural image correctly classified as class t. The 
probability of x belonging to the class t 
is therefore ft(x). The 
vector e(x)=(e1, 
::, 
en) 
is an additive adversarial perturbation 
according to x, the target class adv 
and the limitation of 
maximum modification L. Note that L 
is always measured 
by the length of vector e(x). The goal of adversaries in the 
case of targeted attacks is to find the optimized solution e(x)∗ 


for the following question: 
maximize 
e(x)∗ 
fadv(x + 
e(x)) 
subject to ke(x)k 
≤ 
L 


The problem involves finding two values: (a) which dimensions 
that need to be perturbed and (b) the corresponding 
strength of the modification for each dimension. In our approach, 
the equation is slightly different: 

maximize fadv(x + 
e(x)) 


e(x)∗ 


subject to ke(x)k0 
≤ 
d, 
where d 
is a small number. In the case of one-pixel attack d 
= 


1. Previous works commonly modify a part of all dimensions 
while in our approach only d 
dimensions are modified with 
the other dimensions of e(x) 
left to zeros. 
The one-pixel modification can be seen as perturbing the 
data point along a direction parallel to the axis of one of the 
n 
dimensions. Similarly, the 3 (5)-pixel modification moves 
the data points within 3 (5)-dimensional cubes. Overall, few-
pixel attack conducts perturbations on the low-dimensional 
slices of input space. In fact, one-pixel perturbation allows the 
modification of an image towards a chosen direction out of n 
possible directions with arbitrary strength. This is illustrated 
in Figure 4 for the case when n 
=3. 

Thus, usual adversarial images are constructed by perturbating 
all pixels with an overall constraint on the strength 
of accumulated modification[8][14] while the few-pixel attack 
considered in this paper is the opposite which specifically 


Fig. 4. An illustration of using one and two-pixel perturbation attack in 
a 3-dimensional input space (i.e. the image has three pixels). The green 
point (sphere) denotes a natural image. In the case of one-pixel perturbation, 
the search space is the three perpendicular lines that intersect at point of 
natural image, which are denoted by red and black stripes. For two-pixel 
perturbation, the search space is the three blue (shaded) two-dimensional 
planes. In summary, one and two-pixel attacks search the perturbation on 
respectively one and two dimensional slices of the original three dimensional 
input space. 

focus on few pixels but does not limit the strength of modification. 


B. Differential Evolution 
Differential evolution (DE) is a population based optimization 
algorithm for solving complex multi-modal optimization 
problems [23], [6]. DE belongs to the general class of evolutionary 
algorithms (EA). Moreover, it has mechanisms in 
the population selection phase that keep the diversity such 
that in practice it is expected to efficiently find higher quality 
solutions than gradient-based solutions or even other kinds 
of EAs [4]. In specific, during each iteration another set of 
candidate solutions (children) is generated according to the 
current population (parents). Then the children are compared 
with their corresponding parents, surviving if they are more 
fitted (possess higher fitness value) than their parents. In 
such a way, only comparing the parent and his child, the 
goal of keeping diversity and improving fitness values can 
be simultaneously achieved. 

DE does not use the gradient information for optimizing 
and therefore does not require the objective function to be 
differentiable or previously known. Thus, it can be utilized 
on a wider range of optimization problems compared to 
gradient based methods (e.g., non-differentiable, dynamic, 
noisy, among others). The use of DE for generating adversarial 
images have the following main advantages: 

• 
Higher probability of Finding Global Optima -DE is 
a meta-heuristic which is relatively less subject to local 
minima than gradient descent or greedy search algorithms 
(this is in part due to diversity keeping mechanisms and 
the use of a set of candidate solutions). Moreover, the 
problem considered in this article has a strict constraint 
(only one pixel can be modified) making it relatively 
harder. 
• 
Require Less Information from Target System -DE 
does not require the optimization problem to be differentiable 
as is required by classical optimization methods 
such as gradient descent and quasi-newton methods. This 
is critical in the case of generating adversarial images 
since 1) There are networks that are not differentiable, 
for instance [26]. 2) Calculating gradient requires much 
more information about the target system which can be 
hardly realistic in many cases. 
• 
Simplicity -The approach proposed here is independent 
of the classifier used. For the attack to take place it is 
sufficient to know the probability labels. 
There are many DE variations/improvements such as self-
adaptive [3], multi-objective [27], among others. The current 
work can be further improved by taking these variations/
improvements into account. 

C. Method and Settings 
We encode the perturbation into an array (candidate solution) 
which is optimized (evolved) by differential evolution. 
One candidate solution contains a fixed number of 
perturbations and each perturbation is a tuple holding five 
elements: x-y coordinates and RGB value of the perturbation. 
One perturbation modifies one pixel. The initial number of 
candidate solutions (population) is 400 
and at each iteration 
another 400 
candidate solutions (children) will be produced 
by using the usual DE formula: 

xi(g 
+1) 
= 
xr1(g)+ 
F 
(xr2(g) 
− 
xr3(g)), 
r1=6 
r2=6 
r3, 


where xi 
is an element of the candidate solution, r1;r2;r3 
are random numbers, F 
is the scale parameter set to be 0.5, 
g 
is the current index of generation. Once generated, each 
candidate solution compete with their corresponding parents 
according to the index of the population and the winner survive 
for next iteration. The maximum number of iteration is set 
to 100 
and early-stop criterion will be triggered when the 
probability label of target class exceeds 90% 
in the case of 
targeted attacks on Kaggle CIFAR-10, and when the label of 
true class is lower than 5% 
in the case of non-targeted attacks 
on ImageNet. Then the label of true class is compared with the 
highest non-true class to evaluate if the attack succeeded. The 
initial population is initialized by using uniform distributions 
U(1, 
32) 
for CIFAR-10 images and U(1, 
227) 
for ImageNet 
images, for generating x-y coordinate (e.g., the image has 
a size of 32X32 in CIFAR-10 and for ImageNet we unify 
the original images with various resolutions to 227X227) and 
Gaussian distributions N (=128, =127) for RGB values. The 
fitness function is simply the probabilistic label of the target 
class in the case of CIFAR-10 and the label of true class in 
the case of ImageNet. The crossover is not included in our 
scheme. 

IV. EVALUATION AND RESULTS 
The evaluation of the proposed attack method is based 
on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets. We introduce several 
metrics to measure the effectiveness of the attacks: 


• 
Success Rate -In the case of non-targeted attacks, it is 
defined as the percentage of adversarial images that were 
successfully classified by the target system as an arbitrary 
target class. In the case of targeted attack, it is defined as 
the probability of perturbing a natural image to a specific 
target class. 
• 
Adversarial Probability Labels (Confidence) -Accumulates 
the values of probability label of the target class 
for each successful perturbation, then divided by the 
total number of successful perturbations. The measure 
indicates the average confidence given by the target 
system when mis-classifying adversarial images. 
• 
Number of Target Classes -Counts the number of 
natural images that successfully perturb to a certain 
number (i.e. from 0 to 9) of target classes. In particular, by 
counting the number of images that can not be perturbed 
to any other classes, the effectiveness of non-targeted 
attack can be evaluated. 
• 
Number of Original-Target Class Pairs -Counts the 
number of times each original-destination class pair was 
attacked. 
A. Kaggle CIFAR-10 

We train 3 types of common networks: All convolution network 
[22], Network in Network[13] and VGG16 network[21] 
as target image classifiers on CIFAR-10 dataset [12], [64]. 
The structures of the networks are described in Table 1, 2 
and 3. The network setting were kept as similar as possible 
to the original with a few modifications in order to get the 
highest classification accuracy. Both the scenarios of targeted 
and non-targeted attacks are considered. For each of the attacks 
on the three types of neural networks 500 
natural images are 
randomly selected from the Kaggle CIFAR-10 test dataset to 
conduct the attack. 

Note that we use the Kaggle CIFAR-10 test dataset [64] 
instead of the original one for this experiments. The dataset 
contains 300,000 cifar-10 images which can be visually 
inspected to have the following modifications: duplication, 
rotation, clipping, blurring, adding few random bad pixels and 
so on. However, the exact employed modification algorithm 
is not released. This makes it a more practical dataset which 
simulates common scenarios that images can contain unknown 
random noise. We also show the results on the original CIFAR10 
test dataset in Section 5 for comparison. 

In addition, an experiment is conducted on the all convolution 
network [22] by generating 500 
adversarial images with 
three and five pixel-modification. The objective is to compare 
one-pixel attack with three and five pixel attacks. For each 
natural image, nine target attacks are launched trying to perturb 
it to the other 9 target classes. Note that we actually only 
launch targeted attacks and the effectiveness of non-targeted 
attack is evaluated based on targeted attack results. That is, 
if an image can be perturbed to at least one target class 
out of total 9 classes, the non-targeted attack on this image 
succeeds. Overall, it leads to the total of 36000 
adversarial 
images created. To evaluate the effectiveness of the attacks, 
some established measures from the literature are used as well 
as some new kinds of measures are introduced: 

conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=96) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=96) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 2, depth=96) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=192) 
dropout(0.3) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 2, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 2, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=1, stride = 1, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=1, stride = 1, depth=10) 
average pooling layer(kernel=6, stride=1) 
flatten layer 
softmax classifier 

TABLE I 
ALL CONVOLUTION NETWORK 

conv2d layer(kernel=5, stride = 1, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=1, stride = 1, depth=160) 
conv2d layer(kernel=1, stride = 1, depth=96) 
max pooling layer(kernel=3, stride=2) 
dropout(0.5) 
conv2d layer(kernel=5, stride = 1, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=5, stride = 1, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=5, stride = 1, depth=192) 
average pooling layer(kernel=3, stride=2) 
dropout(0.5) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=1, stride = 1, depth=192) 
conv2d layer(kernel=1, stride = 1, depth=10) 
average pooling layer(kernel=8, stride=1) 
flatten layer 
softmax classifier 

TABLE II 
NETWORK IN NETWORK 

conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=64) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=64) 
max pooling layer(kernel=2, stride=2) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=128) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=128) 
max pooling layer(kernel=2, stride=2) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=256) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=256) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=256) 
max pooling layer(kernel=2, stride=2) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=512) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=512) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=512) 
max pooling layer(kernel=2, stride=2) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=512) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=512) 
conv2d layer(kernel=3, stride = 1, depth=512) 
max pooling layer(kernel=2, stride=2) 
flatten layer 
fully connected(size=2048) 
fully connected(size=2048) 
softmax classifier 

TABLE III 
VGG16 NETWORK 

B. ImageNet 
For ImageNet we applied a non-targeted attack with the 
same DE parameter settings used on the CIFAR-10 dataset, 
although ImageNet has a search space 50 times larger than 
CIFAR-10. Note that we actually launch the non-targeted 
attack for ImageNet by using a fitness function that aims 
to decrease the probability label of the true class. Different 
from CIFAR-10, whose effectiveness of non-targeted attack 
is calculated based on the targeted attack results carried out 
by using a fitness function for increasing the probability of 


target classes. Given the time constraints, we conduct the 
experiment without proportionally increasing the number of 
evaluations, i.e. we keep the same number of evaluations. Our 
tests are run over the BVLC AlexNet using 105 images from 
ILSVRC 2012 test set selected randomly for the attack. For 
ImageNet we only conduct one pixel attack because we want 
to verify if such a tiny modification can fool images with 
larger size and if it is computationally tractable to conduct 
such attacks. The ILSVRC 2012 images are in lossy jpeg 
format with non-unified sizes. In order to reduce the practical 
interference to the evaluation as much as possible, we first 
convert all target images from jpeg to png therefore during 
later processing it will be lossless. The images are further 
resized to 227X227 resolution for inputting to AlexNet (using 
nearest filter). Then we follow the same procedure to attacking 
CIFAR-10. Note that the discrepancy on pre-processing raw 
images (e.g., using center cropping instead of simple resizing) 
can influence the classification performance of AlexNet and 
attack rate. Here we only show the result on one setting and 
leave the comprehensive evaluation of attacking AlexNet using 
difference pre-processing methods for future work. 

C. Results 
The success rates and adversarial probability labels for one-
pixel perturbations on three CIFAR-10 networks and BVLC 
network are shown in Table 4 and the three and five-pixel 
perturbations on Kaggle CIFAR-10 is shown in Table 5. The 
number of target classes is shown by Figure 5. The number 
of original-target class pairs is shown by the heat-maps of 
Figure 6 and 7. In addition to the number of original-target 
class pairs, the total number of times each class had an attack 
which either originated or targeted it is shown in Figure 8. 
Since only non-targeted attacks are launched on ImageNet, 
the “Number of target classes” and “Number of original-target 
class pairs” metrics are not included in the ImageNet results. 

1) Success Rate and Adversarial Probability Labels (Targeted 
Attack Results): On Kaggle CIFAR-10, the success 
rates of one-pixel attacks on three types of networks show 
the generalized effectiveness of the proposed attack through 
different network structures. On average, each image can be 
perturbed to about two target classes for each network. In 
addition, by increasing the number of pixels that can be 
modified to three and five, the number of target classes that can 
be reached increases significantly. By dividing the adversarial 
probability labels by the success rates, the confidence values 
(i.e. probability labels of target classes) are obtained which 
are 79.39%, 79.17% 
and 77.09% 
respectively to one, three 
and five-pixel attacks. 
On ImageNet, the results show that the one pixel attack generalizes 
well to large size images and fool the corresponding 
neural networks. In particular, there is 16:04% 
chance that an 
arbitrary ImageNet test image can be perturbed to a target class 
with 22:91% 
confidence. Note that the ImageNet results are 
done with the same settings as CIFAR-10 while the resolution 
of images we use for the ImageNet test is 227x227, which is 
50 times larger than CIFAR-10 (32x32). Notice that in each 
successful attack the probability label of the target class is the 

AllConv NiN VGG16 BVLC 
OriginAcc 85:6% 
87:2% 
83:3% 
57:3% 
Targeted 19:82% 
23:15% 
16:48% 
– 
Non-targeted 68:71% 
71:66% 
63:53% 
16:04% 
Confidence 79:40% 
75:02% 
67:67% 
22:91% 


TABLE IV 
RESULTS OF CONDUCTING ONE-PIXEL ATTACK ON FOUR DIFFERENT 
TYPES OF NETWORKS: ALL CONVOLUTIONAL NETWORK (ALLCONV), 
NETWORK IN NETWORK (NIN), VGG16 AND BVLC ALEXNET. THE 
ORIGINALACC IS THE ACCURACY ON THE NATURAL TEST DATASETS. 
TARGETED/NON-TARGETED INDICATE THE ACCURACY OF CONDUCTING 
TARGETED/NON-TARGETED ATTACKS. CONFIDENCE IS THE AVERAGE 
PROBABILITY OF TARGET CLASSES. 

3 pixels 5 pixels 
Success rate(tar) 40:57% 
44:00% 
Success rate(non-tar) 86:53% 
86:34% 
Rate/Labels 79:17% 
77:09% 


TABLE V 
RESULTS OF CONDUCTING THREE-PIXEL ATTACK ON ALLCONV 
NETWORKS AND FIVE-PIXEL ATTACK ON NETWORK IN NETWORK. 

highest. Therefore, the confidence of 22:91% 
is relatively low 
but tell us that the other remaining 999 
classes are even lower 
to an almost uniform soft label distribution. Thus, the one-
pixel attack can break the confidence of BVLC AlexNet to a 
nearly uniform soft label distribution. The low confidence is 
caused by the fact that we utilized a non-targeted evaluation 
that only focuses on decreasing the probability of the true 
class. Other fitness functions should give different results. 

2) Number of Target Classes (Non-targeted Attack Results): 
Regarding the results shown in Figure 5, we find that with only 
one-pixel modification a fair amount of natural images can be 
perturbed to two, three and four target classes. By increasing 
the number of pixels modified, perturbation to more target 
classes becomes highly probable. In the case of non-targeted 
one-pixel attack, the VGG16 network got a slightly higher 
robustness against the proposed attack. This suggests that all 
three types of networks (AllConv network, NiN and VGG16) 
are vulnerable to this type of attack. 

The results of attacks are competitive with previous non-
targeted attack methods which need much more distortions 
(Table 6). It shows that using one dimensional perturbation 
vectors is enough to find the corresponding adversarial images 
for most of the natural images. In fact, by increasing the 
number of pixels up to five, a considerable number of images 
can be simultaneously perturbed to eight target classes. In 
some rare cases, an image can go to all other target classes 
with one-pixel modification, which is illustrated in Figure 9. 

3) Original-Target Class Pairs: Some specific original-
target class pairs are much more vulnerable than others (Figure 
6 and 7). For example, images of cat (class 3) can be much 
more easily perturbed to dog (class 5) but can hardly reach the 
automobile (class 1). This indicates that the vulnerable target 
classes (directions) are shared by different data points that 
belong to the same class. Moreover, in the case of one-pixel 
attack, some classes are more robust than others since their 
data points can be relatively hard to perturb to other classes. 
Among these data points, there are points that can not be 
perturbed to any other classes. This indicates that the labels of 

Fig. 5. The graphs shows the percentage of natural images that were 
successfully perturbed to a certain number (from 0 to 9) of target classes 
by using one, three or five-pixel perturbation. The vertical axis shows the 
percentage of images that can be perturbed while the horizontal axis indicates 
the number of target classes. 

these points rarely change when going across the input space 
through n 
directions perpendicular to the axes. Therefore, 
the corresponding original classes are kept robust along these 
directions. However, it can be seen that such robustness can 
rather easily be broken by merely increasing the dimensions of 
perturbation from one to three and five because both success 
rates and number of target classes that can be reached increase 
when conducting higher-dimensional perturbations. 

Additionally, it can also be seen that each heat-map matrix 
is approximately symmetric, indicating that each class has 
similar number of adversarial images which were crafted from 
these classes as well as to these classes (Figure 8). Having said 
that, there are some exceptions for example the class 8 (ship) 
when attacking NiN, the class 4 (deer) when attacking AllConv 
networks with one pixel, among others. In the ship class when 
attacking NiN networks, for example, it is relatively easy to 
craft adversarial images from them while it is relatively hard to 
craft adversarial images to them. Such unbalance is intriguing 
since it indicates the ship class is similar to most of the other 

Fig. 6. Heat-maps of the number of times a successful attack is present with 
the corresponding original-target class pair in one, three and five-pixel attack 
cases. Red (vertical) and (horizontal) blue indices indicate respectively the 
original and target classes. The number from 0 
to 9 
indicates respectively the 
following classes: airplane, automobile, bird, cat, deer, dog, frog, horse, ship, 
truck. 

classes like truck and airplane but not vice-versa. This might 
be due to (a) boundary shape and (b) how close are natural 
images to the boundary. In other words, if the boundary shape 
is wide enough it is possible to have natural images far away 
from the boundary such that it is hard to craft adversarial 
images from it. On the contrary, if the boundary shape is 
mostly long and thin with natural images close to the border, 
it is easy to craft adversarial images from them but hard to 
craft adversarial images to them. 

In practice, such classes which are easy to craft adversarial 
images from may be exploited by malicious users which 
may make the whole system vulnerable. In the case here, 
however, the exceptions are not shared between the networks, 


Fig. 7. Heat-maps for one-pixel attack on Network in network and VGG. 

AllConv NiN VGG16 BVLC 
AvgEvaluation 16000 12400 20000 25600 
AvgDistortion 123 133 145 158 

TABLE VI 
COST OF CONDUCTING ONE-PIXEL ATTACK ON FOUR DIFFERENT TYPES 
OF NETWORKS. AVGEVALUATION IS THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF 
EVALUATIONS TO PRODUCE ADVERSARIAL IMAGES. AVGDISTORTION IS 
THE REQUIRED AVERAGE DISTORTION IN ONE-CHANNEL OF A SINGLE 
PIXEL TO PRODUCE ADVERSARIAL IMAGES. 

revealing that whatever is causing the phenomenon is not 
shared. Therefore, for the current systems under the given 
attacks, such a vulnerability seems hard to be exploited. 

4) Time complexity and average distortion: To evaluate the 
time complexity we use the number of evaluations which is a 
common metric in optimization. In the DE case the number 
of evaluations is equal to the population size multiplied by the 
number of generations. We also calculate the average distortion 
on the single pixel attacked by taking the average modification 
on the three color channels, which is a more straight forward 
and explicit measure of modification strength. We did not use 
the Lp 
norm due to its limited effectiveness of measuring 
perceptiveness [38]. The results of two metrics are shown in 
Table 7. 
5) Comparing with Random One-Pixel Attack: We compare 
the proposed method with the random attack to evaluate if DE 
is truly helpful for conducting one-pixel non-targeted attack on 
Kaggle CIFAR-10 dataset, which is shown in Table 8. 
Specifically, for each natural image, the random search 
repeats 100 times, each time randomly modifies one random 


Fig. 8. Number of successful attacks (vertical axis) for a specific class acting 
as the original (black) and target (gray) class. The horizontal axis indicates 
the index of each class which is the same as Figure 7. 

pixel of the image with random RGB value to attempt to 
change its label. The confidence of the attack with respect 
to one image is set to be the highest probability target class 
label of 100 attacks. 

In this experiment, we use the same number of evaluations 
(80000) for both DE and random search. According to the 
comparison, the DE is superior to the random attack regarding 
attack accuracy, especially in the case of VGG16 network. 
Specifically, DE is 19:01%, 29:94% 
and 47:96% 
more effi



Fig. 9. A natural image of the dog class that can be perturbed to all other nine 
classes. The attack is conducted over the AllConv network using the proposed 
one pixel attack. The table in the bottom shows the class labels output by the 
target DNN, all with approximately 100% 
confidence. This curious result 
further emphasize the difference and limitations of current methods when 
compared to human recognition. 

AllConv NiN VGG16 
DE success rate 68:71% 
71:66% 
63:53% 
Confidence 79:40% 
75:02% 
67:67% 
Random Search success rate 49:70% 
41:72% 
15:57% 
Confidence 87:73% 
75:83% 
59:90% 


TABLE VII 
A COMPARISON OF ATTACK RATE AND CONFIDENCE BETWEEN DE 
ONE-PIXEL ATTACK AND RANDOM ONE-PIXEL ATTACK (NON-TARGETED) 
ON KAGGLE CIFAR-10 DATASET. 

cient than random search respectively for All Convolutional 
Network, Network in Network and VGG16. Even with a 
less efficient result, random search is shown to find 49:70% 
and 41:72% 
of the time for respectively All Convolutional 
Network and Network in Network, therefore the vulnerable 
pixels that can change the image label significantly are quite 
common. That seems not to be the case for VGG though in 
which random search achieves only 15:57%. DE has a similar 
accuracy in all of them showing also a better robustness. 

6) Change in fitness values: We run an experiment over 
different networks to examine how the fitness changes during 
evolution. The 30 (15) curves come from 30 (15) random Kaggle 
CIFAR-10 (ImageNet) images successfully attacked by the 
proposed one-pixel attack (Figure 10). The fitness values are, 
as previously described, set to be the probability label of the 
true class for each image. The goal of the attack is to minimize 
this fitness value. According to the results, it can be seen 
that the fitness values can occasionally drop abruptly between 
two generations while in other cases they decrease smoothly. 
Moreover, the average fitness value decreases monotonically 
with the number of generations, showing that the evolution 
works as expected. We also find that BVLC network is harder 
to fool due to the smaller decrease in fitness values. 


Fig. 10. The change of fitness values during 100 generations of evolution 
of images (non-targeted) attacked by the proposed method among different 
network structures. The average values are highlighted by red dotted lines. 


AllConv NiN VGG16 
Targeted 3:41% 
4:78% 
5:63% 
Non-targeted1 22:67% 
32:00% 
30:33% 
Confidence 54:58% 
55:18% 
51:19% 
Non-targeted2 22:60% 
35:20% 
31:40% 
Confidence 56:57% 
60:08% 
53:58% 


TABLE VIII 
RESULTS OF CONDUCTING ONE-PIXEL ATTACK ON ORIGINAL CIFAR-10 
TEST SET. NON-TARGETED1 INDICATES THE NON-TARGETED ATTACK 
ACCURACY CALCULATED FROM TARGETED ATTACK RESULTS AND 
NON-TARGETED2 INDICATES THE TRUE NON-TARGETED ATTACK 
ACCURACY. OTHER METRICS ARE THE SAME TO TABLE 4. 

V. RESULTS ON ORIGINAL CIFAR-10 TEST DATA 
We present another evaluation of one pixel attack which 
is on original CIFAR-10 test dataset [12]. Comparing to the 
results on Kaggle CIFAR-10 aforementioned, the scenario is 
more limited since the images contain much less practical 
noise. Therefore, the target CNNs can have higher classification 
accuracy and confidence which definitely makes the attack 
harder. Additionally, we only use images correctly classified 
by the target CNNs while in the experiment on Kaggle CIFAR10 
set we use all images (i.e., which contain wrongly classified 
images) with their true labels predicted by the target CNNs. 

We use 500 random images for non-targeted attack and 
300 for targeted attack. We also make small modification 
on network structure for better implementation. Specifically, 
for the Network in Network, we remove the second average 
pooling layers. For All convolutional network, we remove 
the batch normalization on the first layer. Three CIFAR-10 
networks are re-trained to have similar natural accuracy to 
Table 4. An early-stop criterion will be triggered when the 
probability label of the target class exceeds the original class. 
All other settings are kept the same. The attack results are 
shown by Table 8. The number of target classes is shown by 
Figure 11. The number of original-target class pairs is shown 
by the heat-maps of Figure 12 and Figure 13. In addition to the 
number of original-target class pairs, the total number of times 
each class had an attack which either originated or targeted it 
is shown in Figure 14 and Figure 15. 

According to the attack results shown, we find the following 
features of one-pixel attack on original CIFAR-10. 

1. Attack rate: The three networks have higher robustness 
to one-pixel attack according to the lower attack rate and confidence 
(Table 8). This might due to the higher classification 
accuracy and confidence of three networks on original CIFAR10 
test-set. Similar to the results on Kaggle set, the network 
in network still gets the lowest overall robustness considering 
both attack rate and confidence. This might be related to the 
proximity to the decision boundary. However, VGG network 
becomes much more vulnerable in this case. The discrepancy 
indicates that the robustness among different networks can be 
varied when handling images with low (e.g. Kaggle CIFAR10) 
and high (e.g., original CIFAR-10) confidence. 
2. Number of targeted classes: According to Figure 11, it 
can be seen that in the case of targeted attack, it is still quite 
common that a vulnerable image can be perturbed to more 
than one class. In other words, the image might be locate near 
to the boundaries to multiple classes, especially in the case of 
Fig. 11. The percentage of natural images that were successfully perturbed to 
a certain number (from 0 to 9) of target classes by one pixel targeted attack. 

VGG. This is similar to the Kaggle CIFAR-10 results shown 
by Fig 5. 

Note that one image can be perturbed to a final target class 
A 
through the original target class B 
(i.e. semi-successful 
targeted attack). For some images, the number of B 
can be 
more than one. We do not count it as a successful targeted 
attack unless A 
= B. 

3. Original-target class pairs: In both cases of targeted 
and non-targeted attack we again found the existence of 
vulnerable original-target classes pairs such as dog (5th)-cat 
(3rd) (Figure 12 and Figure 13 ). In most cases, for a class pair 
between class A 
and B, the number of successful perturbation 
from A 
to B 
is similar to the number of B 
to A, which 
makes the heat-maps almost symmetric. However, there are 
exceptions such as ship (8th)-airplane (0th) pair, which the 
perturbation from ship to airplane class is very frequent but 
not vice versa. 
Additionally, it also can be seen from Figure 14 and 
Figure 15, some vulnerable classes exist which have higher 
number of times being both original and target class of the 
attack. A vulnerable original class is probably also vulnerable 
being a target class to a similar extend. 

Most of these features, together with the specific vulnerable 
class-pairs shown by Figure 12 and Figure 13 and vulnerable 
classes shown by Figure 14 and Figure 15, are similar or even 
exactly the same to the finding on attacking Kaggle CIFAR-10 
dataset. 

VI. DISCUSSION 
A. Adversarial Perturbation 
Previous results have shown that many data points might be 
located near to the decision boundaries [9]. For the analysis 
the data points were moved small steps in the input space 


Method 
Success rateConfidenceNumber of pixelsNetwork 
Our method 35:20% 
60:08% 
1 (0:098%) NiN 
Our method 31:40% 
53:58% 
1 (0:098%) VGG 
LSA[15] 97:89% 
72% 
33 (3:24%) NiN 
LSA[15] 97:98% 
77% 
30 (2:99%) VGG 
FGSM[11] 93:67% 
93% 
1024 (100%) NiN 
FGSM[11] 90:93% 
90% 
1024 (100%) VGG 

TABLE IX 
COMPASSION OF NON-TARGETED ATTACK EFFECTIVENESS BETWEEN THE 
PROPOSED METHOD AND TWO PREVIOUS WORKS. THIS SUGGESTS THAT 
ONE PIXEL IS ENOUGH TO CREATE ADVERSARIAL IMAGES FROM MOST OF 
THE NATURAL IMAGES. 

while quantitatively analyzing the frequency of change in the 
class labels. In this paper, we showed that it is also possible 
to move the data points along few dimension to find points 
where the class labels change. Our results also suggest that the 
assumption made by I. J. Goodfellow et al. that small addictive 
perturbation on the values of many dimensions will accumulate 
and cause huge change to the output [11], might not be 
necessary for explaining why natural images are sensitive 
to small perturbation. Since we only changed one pixel to 
successfully perturb a considerable number of images. 

According to the experimental results, the vulnerability of 
CNN exploited by the proposed one pixel attack is generalized 
through different network structures as well as different image 
sizes. In addition, the results shown here mimics an attacker 
and therefore uses a low number of DE iterations with a 
relatively small set of initial candidate solutions. Therefore, the 
perturbation success rates should improve further by having 
either more iterations or a bigger set of initial candidate 
solutions. Implementing more advanced algorithms such as 
Co-variance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy [32] instead 
of DE might also achieve the same improvement. Additionally, 
the proposed algorithm and the widely vulnerable images 

(i.e. natural images that can be used to craft adversarial 
images to most of the other classes) collected might be useful 
for generating better artificial adversarial images in order to 
augment the training dataset. This aids the development of 
more robust models[19] which is left as future work. 
B. Robustness of One-pixel Attack 
Some recently proposed detection methods have shown high 
accuracy of detecting adversarial perturbation. For example, 
B.Liang et al. utilize noise reduction to effectively detect both 
high and low-entropy images (e.g., bigger images give high 
entropy values) [43]. In addition, W. Xu et al. show that 
squeezing color bits and local/non-local spatial smoothing can 
simultanously detect L0, L2 
and L∞ 
attacks [42]. As the 
trade-off of being a low-cost, easy-implemented L0 
attack, we 
do not expect one pixel attack can achieve signficantly better 
robustness against such detection methods compared to other 
L0 
attacks such as [32]. 


Fig. 12. Heat-maps of the number of times a successful attack is present with 
the corresponding original-target class pair, for targeted attacks. 

However, such detection schemes add another layer of preprocessing 
which increases the response time of the system. 
For example, both [42] and [43] require image processing and 
re-classification of the resulting images. Therefore they can 
be inefficient when dealing with adversarial scenarios such as 
novelty detection on security camera and image recognition 
systems on autonomous driving applications which run in 
real time with high frame rate. Besides, the impact of preprocessing 
on the classification accuracy is still not fully 
understood. 

Detecting adversarial perturbation indeed can be helpful 
in practice. However, the fundamental problem is still left 
unsolved: the neural networks are still not able to recognize 
similar images as such, ignoring small adversarial perturbation. 
By proposing novel attack methods, we aim to emphasize 
the existence of different types of vulnerabilities and the 
corresponding understanding. 


Fig. 13. Heat-maps of the number of times a successful attack is present with 
the corresponding original-target class pair, for non-targeted attacks. 

VII. FUTURE WORK 
The DE utilized in this research belongs to a big class of 
algorithms called evolutionary strategies [48] which includes 
other variants such as Adaptive DE [49] and Covariance matrix 
adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES) [50], [51], [52]. In 
fact, there are a couple of recent developments [61], [62], [63] 
in evolutionary strategies and related areas that could further 
improve the current method, allowing for more efficient and 
accurate attacks. 

Furthermore, evolutionary computation also provides some 
promising approaches to solve adversarial machine learning 
related vulnerabilities. In fact, evolutionary-based machine 
learning allows for a great flexibility of models and may be an 
answer to the same problems it is revealing. First, in an area 
of evolutionary machine learning called neuroevolution, it was 
shown to be possible to learn not just the weights but also the 
topology of the network with evolutionary computation [26], 
[44], [53]. In fact, SUNA [26] goes beyond current neural 
models to propose a unified neuron model (e.g., time-scales, 
neuromodulation, feedback, long-term memory) that can adapt 
its structure and models to learn completely different problems 

Fig. 14. Number of successful attacks (vertical axis) for a specific class acting 
as the original (black) and target (gray) class, for targeted attacks. 

(including non-markov problems) without changing any of 
its hyper-parameters. This generality is currently surpassing 
most if not all deep learning algorithms. Last but not least, 
self-organizing and novelty-organizing classifiers can adapt to 
changes in the environment by using flexible representations 
[54], [55], [56]. For example, they can adapt to mazes that 
change in shape and to problems where the scope of variables 
change throughout the experiment [57]: a very challenging 
scenario in which most if not all deep learning algorithms fail. 
These among other achievements [58], [59] show a promising 
path that may solve current problems in deep neural networks 
in the years to come. 

Besides, it can be seen that the one-pixel attack can be 
potentially extended to other domains such as natural language 
processing, speech recognition, which will be also left for 
future work. 

VIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This research was partially supported by Collaboration 
Hubs for International Program (CHIRP) of SICORP, Japan 
Science and Technology Agency (JST), and Kyushu University 
Education and Research Center for Mathematical and Data 
Science Grant. 


Fig. 15. Number of successful attacks (vertical axis) for a specific class acting 
as the original (black) and target (gray) class, for non-targeted attacks. 


REFERENCES 

[1] M. Barreno, B. Nelson, A. D. Joseph, and J. Tygar. The security of 
machine learning. Machine Learning, 81(2): pp.121–148, 2010. 
[2] M. Barreno, B. Nelson, R. Sears, A. D. Joseph, and J. D. Tygar. 
Can machine learning be secure? In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM 
Symposium on Information, computer and communications security, 
pp.16–25. ACM, 2006. 
[3] J. Brest, S. Greiner, B. Boskovic, M. Mernik, and V. Zumer. Self-
adapting control parameters in differential evolution: A comparative 
study on numerical benchmark problems. IEEE transactions on evolutionary 
computation, 10(6): pp.646–657, 2006. 
[4] P. Civicioglu and E. Besdok. A conceptual comparison of the cuckoo-
search, particle swarm optimization, differential evolution and artificial 
bee colony algorithms. Artificial intelligence review, pp.1–32, 2013. 
[5] H. Dang, Y. Huang, and E.-C. Chang. Evading classifiers by morphing 
in the dark. 2017. 
[6] S. Das and P. N. Suganthan. Differential evolution: A survey of the 
state-of-the-art. IEEE transactions on evolutionary computation, 15(1): 
pp.4–31, 2011. 
[7] S. M. Moosavi Dezfooli, F. Alhussein and F. Pascal. Deepfool: a simple 
and accurate method to fool deep neural networks. In Proceedings 
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 
pp.2574–2582, 2016. 
[8] S. M. Moosavi Dezfooli, F. Alhussein, F. Omar, F. Pascal, and S. Stefano. 
Analysis of universal adversarial perturbations. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1705.09554, 2017. 
[9] A. Fawzi, S. M. Moosavi Dezfooli, and P. Frossard. The robustness 
of deep networks: A geometrical perspective. IEEE Signal Processing 
Magazine, 34(6): pp.50-62. 
[10] A. Fawzi, S.-M. Moosavi-Dezfooli, P. Frossard, and S. Soatto. 
Classification regions of deep neural networks. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1705.09552, 2017. 
[11] I. J. Goodfellow, J. Shlens, and C. Szegedy. Explaining and harnessing 
adversarial examples. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6572, 2014. 
[12] A. Krizhevsky and G. Hinton. Learning multiple layers of features from 
tiny images. Technical report, (1)4: pp. 7, University of Toronto.2009. 
[13] M. Lin, Q. Chen, and S. Yan. Network in network. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1312.4400, 2013. 
[14] S. M. Moosavi Dezfooli, A. Fawzi, O. Fawzi, and P. Frossard. Universal 
adversarial perturbations. In Proceedings of 2017 IEEE Conference 
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), number EPFLCONF-
226156, 2017. 
[15] N. Narodytska and S. Kasiviswanathan. Simple black-box adversarial 
attacks on deep neural networks. In 2017 IEEE Conference on Computer 
Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), pp.1310–1318. 
IEEE, 2017. 
[16] A. Nguyen, J. Yosinski, and J. Clune. Deep neural networks are easily 
fooled: High confidence predictions for unrecognizable images. In 
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition, pp.427–436, 2015. 

[17] N. Papernot, P. McDaniel, I. Goodfellow, S. Jha, Z. B. Celik, and 
A. Swami. Practical black-box attacks against machine learning. In 
Proceedings of the 2017 ACM on Asia Conference on Computer and 
Communications Security, pp.506–519. ACM, 2017. 

[18] N. Papernot, P. McDaniel, S. Jha, M. Fredrikson, Z. B. Celik, and 
A. Swami. The limitations of deep learning in adversarial settings. In 
Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), 2016 IEEE European Symposium on, 
pp.372–387. IEEE, 2016. 
[19] A. Rozsa, E. M. Rudd, and T. E. Boult. Adversarial diversity and 
hard positive generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on 
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, pp.25–32, 2016. 
[20] K. Simonyan, A. Vedaldi, and A. Zisserman. Deep inside convolutional 
networks: Visualising image classification models and saliency maps. 
arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6034, 2013. 
[21] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for 
large-scale image recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556, 2014. 
[22] J. Springenberg, A. Dosovitskiy, T. Brox, and M. Riedmiller. Striving 
for simplicity: The all convolutional net. In ICLR (workshop track). 
[23] R. Storn and K. Price. Differential evolution–a simple and efficient 
heuristic for global optimization over continuous spaces. Journal of 
global optimization, 11(4): pp.341–359, 1997. 
[24] S. Christian, Z. Wojciech, S. Ilya, b. Joan, E. Dumitru, G. Ian, F. Rob. Intriguing 
properties of neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6199, 
2013. 
[25] Y. Taigman, M. Yang, M. Ranzato, and L. Wolf. Deepface: Closing 
the gap to human-level performance in face verification. In Proceedings 
of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 
pp.1701–1708, 2014. 
[26] D. V. Vargas and J. Murata. Spectrum-diverse neuroevolution with 
unified neural models. IEEE transactions on neural networks and 
learning systems, 28(8):pp.1759–1773, 2017. 
[27] D. V. Vargas, J. Murata, H. Takano, and A. C. B. Delbem. General 
subpopulation framework and taming the conflict inside populations. 
Evolutionary computation, 23(1):pp.1–36, 2015. 
[28] D. Wei, B. Zhou, A. Torrabla, and W. Freeman. Understanding intraclass 
knowledge inside cnn. arXiv preprint arXiv:1507.02379, 2015. 
[29] J. Yosinski, J. Clune, T. Fuchs, and H. Lipson. Understanding neural 
networks through deep visualization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.06579, 
2015. 
[30] M. D. Zeiler and R. Fergus. Visualizing and understanding convolutional 
networks. In European conference on computer vision, pp.818–833. 
Springer, 2014. 
[31] J. Su, D. Vargas, and K. Sakurai. One pixel attack for fooling deep 
neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.08864, 2017. 
[32] N. Hansen. The CMA evolution strategy: a comparing review In Towards 
a new evolutionary computation, pp.75–102. Springer, 2006. 
[33] A. Moustafa, B. Bharathan, S. Mani. Did you hear that? Adversarial 
Examples Against Automatic Speech Recognition. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1801.00554, 2018. 
[34] P. Nicolas, M. Patrick, S. Ananthram, H. Richard. Crafting Adversarial 
Input Sequences for Recurrent Neural Networks. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1604.08275, 2016. 
[35] G. Kathrin, P. Nicolas, M. Praveen, B. Michael, M. Patrick. Adversarial 
Perturbations Against Deep Neural Networks for Malware Classification. 
arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.04435, 2016. 
[36] E. Logan, T. Brandon, T. Dimitris, S. Ludwig, M. Aleksander. A 
Rotation and a Translation Suffice: Fooling CNNs with Simple Transformations. 
arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.02779, 2017. 
[37] G. Kathrin, P. Nicolas, M. Praveen, B. Michael, M. Patrick. Adversarial 
Perturbations Against Deep Neural Networks for Malware Classification. 
arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.04435, 2016. 
[38] M. Sharif, L. Bauer, MK. Reiter On the Suitability of Lp-norms 
for Creating and Preventing Adversarial Examples. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1802.09653, 2018. 
[39] X. Yuan, P. He, Q. Zhu, R. R. Bhat Adversarial Examples: Attacks and 
Defenses for Deep Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.07107, 2017. 
[40] N. Papernot, P. McDaniel, X. Wu, S. Jha, A. Swami Distillation as 
a defense to adversarial perturbations against deep neural networks. In 
Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pp.1701– 
1708. 
[41] R. Huang, B. Xu, D. Schuurmans, C. Szepesvri Learning with a strong 
adversary. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.03034, 2015. 
[42] W. Xu, D. Evans, Y. Qi Feature squeezing: Detecting adversarial 
examples in deep neural networks arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.01155, 
2017. 
[43] B. Liang et al. Detecting Adversarial Examples in Deep Networks with 
Adaptive Noise Reduction. arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.08378, 2017. 
[44] K. O. Stanley, R. Miikkulainen. Evolving neural networks through 
augmenting topologies. In Evolutionary Computation, pp.99–127. 
[45] N. Carlini, D. Wagner. Adversarial examples are not easily detected: 
Bypassing ten detection methods. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM 
Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Security, pp.3–14. 
[46] N. Carlini, D. Wagner. Defensive distillation is not robust to adversarial 
examples. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.04311, 2016. 
[47] N. Carlini, D. Wagner. Towards evaluating the robustness of neural 
networks. In 2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), 
pp.39–57. 
[48] H.G. Beyer and H.P. Schwefel. Evolution strategiesA comprehensive 
introduction. In Natural computing, pp.3–52. 
[49] A.K. Qin and P.N. Suganthan. Self-adaptive differential evolution 
algorithm for numerical optimization. In The 2005 IEEE Congress on 
Evolutionary Computation, pp.1785–1791. 
[50] N. Hansen, S. D. Mller, and P. Koumoutsakos. Reducing the time 
complexity of the derandomized evolution strategy with covariance 
matrix adaptation (CMA-ES). In Evol. Comput, pp.1–18. 
[51] N. Hansen and A. Ostermeier. Adapting arbitrary normal mutation 
distributions in evolution strategies: The covariance matrix adaptation. 
In Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Conference on Evolutionary Computation, 
pp.312–317. 
[52] N. Hansen and A. Ostermeier. Completely derandomized self-adaptation 
in evolution strategies. In Evol. Comput, pp.159–195. 
[53] D. Whitley, S. Dominic, R. Das and C.W. Anderson. Genetic reinforcement 
learning for neurocontrol problems. In Machine Learning, 
pp.259–284. 
[54] D.V. Vargas, H. Takano and J. Murata. Self organizing classifiers: 
first steps in structured evolutionary machine learning. In Evolutionary 
Intelligence, pp.57–72. 
[55] D.V. Vargas, H. Takano and J. Murata. Self organizing classifiers and 

niched fitness. In Proceedings of the 15th annual conference on Genetic 
and evolutionary computation, pp.1109–1116. 

[56] D.V. Vargas, H. Takano and J. Murata. Novelty-organizing team of 
classifiers-a team-individual multi-objective approach to reinforcement 
learning. In Proceedings of the SICE Annual Conference (SICE), 
pp.1785–1792. 
[57] D.V. Vargas, H. Takano and J. Murata. Novelty-organizing team of 
classifiers in noisy and dynamic environments. In 2015 IEEE Congress 
on Evolutionary Computation (CEC), pp.2937–2944. 
[58] R.J. Urbanowicz and J.H. Moore. ExSTraCS 2.0: description and 
evaluation of a scalable learning classifier system. In Evolutionary 
intelligence, pp.89–116. 
[59] I.M. Alvarez, W.N. Browne and M. Zhang. Compaction for code 
fragment based learning classifier systems. In Australasian Conference 
on Artificial Life and Computational Intelligence, pp.41–53. 
[60] N. Carlini and D. Wagner. Magnet and efficient defenses against 
adversarial attacks are not robust to adversarial examples. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1711.08478, 2017. 
[61] A. Abdolmaleki, B. Price, N. Lau, L.P. Reis and G. Neumann. Deriving 
and improving CMA-ES with information geometric trust regions. In 
Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference, 
pp.657–664. 
[62] K. Nishida and Y. Akimoto. PSA-CMA-ES: CMA-ES with population 
size adaptation. In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary 
Computation Conference, pp.865–872. 
[63] M. Groves and J. Branke. Sequential sampling for noisy optimisation 
with CMA-ES. In Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary 
Computation Conference, pp.1023–1030. 
[64] CIFAR-10 -Object Recognition in Images@Kaggle. At 
https://www.kaggle.com/c/cifar-10/data. Accessed date: 1 Feb, 2018. 
[65] Jiawei Su, Danilo Vasconcellos Vargas, Kouichi Sakurai One Pixel 
Attack for Fooling Deep Neural Networks. In IEEE Transactions on 
Evolutionary Computation, Vol.23 , Issue.5 , pp. 828–841. Publisher: 
IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/TEVC.2019.2890858. 

